Um, okay, so, the time that's left to me before mum and dad get home.
Um, I have to think a bit more about what other messages I've received in my life.
This is probably what I should focus on, on the way to and from work.
Um, but, I think...
Something to do with mum and dad.
The things I learnt from mum and dad were probably important.
Um, messages I received from mum and dad.
Also messages from society of like, you know, masculinity and sex.
Intimacy and all those sorts of things.
Um, that kind of, those feelings of, kind of those messages of, um...
I don't know quite how to put it into words.
It's like, um, you should be having sex, basically.
You know, especially as a teenager, it's like what everybody's talking about, everybody's thinking about.
It's in all of the media everywhere all the time.
And as somebody who struggled with that, who was afraid and struggled with socialising and was intimidated by it and intimidated by women
and never really felt like I knew what to do, um...
I, uh, I internalise that as kind of something being along with me.
I think I can remember often feeling like, um, I wish I didn't, I could like cut the sexual part of my brain out.
Um, you know, and that, you know, it seems so easy for everybody else, sex and intimacy.
I just didn't know what to do and I felt wrong and broken because of that.
But there wasn't, I was just thinking about that.
Ah, so the, so, very high level summary of some of the things, some of the messages I have received.
Um, actually, you know, I'm going to pause this and make another one.
