Things are reminding me of Holly again.
I'm walking.
I'm walking in front of your conservation park.
I hurt.
And I'm sad. And I'm confused.
I can't even get five minutes alone even out here.
I'm going for a walk and constantly people are walking past.
Even late on a Sunday afternoon.
And it makes... I feel... I struggle. I really struggle to do this.
Out and about when there's people around and can hear me talking to myself.
I particularly struggle to talk loudly.
I feel confused and lost.
I'm drawing going back to work. I feel like I've got very little to look forward to right now.
And that hopefulness and excitement that I had just a month or two ago has completely faded.
And now I'm thinking about studying again.
Try and find some kind of fucking purpose or meaning.
I think I really struggle to work full time.
I mean I worked full time in Korea and I came back and that's what kicked off all the meaning stuff.
All the purposelessness.
Now I'm working full time again and I'm struggling again.
To be honest I felt pretty similar when I was doing uni.
Sometimes I feel like I'm past Holly and I'm moving on.
And then days like today remind me that that is not the case at all.
And it's hard to feel... it's hard to... it's like I don't want to be around her.
I don't want to think about her. I don't want to... I don't know.
I feel like maybe I'm being really avoidant. Like I'm trying to avoid my feelings around her.
I don't want to think about how I think and feel about her but at the same time I also miss her.
And I don't... I mean I like having time to myself to do my own things but I don't know what to do with it.
I don't know what to do with myself at the moment.
Oh god I'm a mess.
My fucking feelings are just a mess.
Alright, look at this walk. This looks nice.
I should come out and do this more often.
I keep thinking "Ah, it's a Sunday mate. Two days off I'm going to spend one of those... spend those days just resting."
But this feels... and you know I keep having these images of... visages of sleeping and late and lying in bed and reading my book
and then lounging around the house and reading my book but then I don't end up doing that
and I feel like I don't want to do that while I'm doing it.
You know like I've sat and watched a whole bunch of Bojack Horseman today and it kind of felt gross.
I should come and do this.
Just go for big long walks through the woods, through the bush with my voice recorder and my thoughts.
Salvatore and Milando.
Solve it by walking.
Work out what I'm actually feeling. Walk my thoughts out.
I think about standing out here past dark and doing this again and bringing a torch and just going and walking out here at night.
And I get scared.
But I also think "Fuck I wish I wasn't living at home."
So I could just do that.
I could just do what I fucking want without anybody.
Mostly without Mum and Dad breathing down my fucking neck about it.
Worrying about everything I fucking do.
This plan of staying at Mum and Dad's place and working for a bit to just make money and being happy just doing that.
It's not lasted very long.
I'm already starting to think about it. I've already been finding myself thinking about moving out with Nick.
I'm thinking about coming back to uni.
It's like I do one thing and it consumes me and then I need a break.
But then I take the break and I'm lost in hope and feel hopeless.
I feel damned if I do, damned if I don't.
How am I actually feeling about Holly?
I feel terrified of having this conversation with her.
Ah.
Is this where this is?
Interesting.
We have to talk about...
Things have been uncomfortable since the last time we talked about seeing each other again.
Me wanting to see her just before she left.
And I've been avoiding her and wanting to not talk to her.
I'm terrified of having... I'm terrified but I'm feeling really uncomfortable about having the conversation.
I'm avoiding it and dreading that we're going to call tonight.
I'm kind of dreading it.
Yeah, I don't know.
I'm a strange creature.
[Holly's voice is heard]
I've just come across a spiky bush B.P. plant.
And it made me think of Holly and it made me think of the times where she...
Where we went walking and she got excited about flowers and wanted to show it to me.
It's a different kind of pain now. It's less raw but it's still very much there.
It's more like an ache now than it is a stab.
And now it's kind of like an ache rather than before where it was a clear stabbing pain that I was kind of leaning into.
Now it's kind of a dull ache that I'm trying to avoid.
I'm feeling a lot more avoided about this one.
I think it's partly to do with wanting to...
How about... Oh, I just guess the confusion around us and how I feel and not wanting to confuse Holly anymore.
I don't know.
I actually feel sick with worry about this conversation, phone conversation with Holly.
I have no idea what to say. I have no idea what to talk about.
I have no idea. We're trying to clear the air between us but I don't even really know what I'm feeling.
I'm just scared and confused and sad and lost and...
I don't want to hurt her and I don't want to confuse her.
And our interactions just seem to be so loaded.
Things aren't easy.
She has a lot of hurt still and so do I.
I don't really know what I want.
I'm pretty sure what I want is to...
When we first break up, what I wanted was to break up but for us to be back together, to get back together for things to work out.
Now I don't know.
Now I kind of feel like maybe we just don't work.
And we need to let that idea die.
But I also kind of feel...
I don't know how I feel.
Lost without her.
Maybe.
All I know is that I don't want to hurt her and confuse her anymore.
But I...
I feel confused. I still want to express things to her.
But we're trying not to do that. We're trying to just be friends and move on.
[sigh]
And that pain's kind of faded but it also hasn't.
The pain of separation, the pain of having to hold each other in the distance.
I thought it had faded and it kind of has but it also hasn't. It's kind of just changed.
It's gone kind of deeper in some ways.
Deeper and wider and less noticeable.
[wind]
[sigh]
