Interesting idea, interesting thought. To what extent could we consider Igor's Automotive?
As I was walking down the hill I was thinking, because I was wearing my BYD shirt, my uniform,
and thinking I don't want to represent this company. I think I know people will see me
wearing the shirt and I was just visiting people throwing a bucket of chum or something
at me spitting on me because they're having a bad experience with BYD and I was thinking
I don't want to represent BYD partly because of that but also partly because I don't want
to represent a company. All the company, all Igor's company cares about, all BYD cares
about is profit. And I stopped and thought about that and thought, is that really the
case? Because there's plenty of people within the company who probably aren't concerned
about the profit, they're just trying to live. So to what extent could we consider Igor's
to be like an emergent agent or entity that emerges from the collective decisions and
behaviours and beliefs and attitudes of its members, much like a person arises, emerges
from the collective behaviours, arguably decisions, particularly behaviours of the cells that
make us up. And to what degree is that agent or entity, Igor's automotive, different from
its constituent parts and to what degree perhaps we could say that that entity does indeed
mostly is motivated by profit. That's like it's, in some ways you could say it's an
agent who seeks out the conditions for its continuation which is profit, basically. Profit
is to a company like food is to a human, essentially. In some ways that's probably oversimplified
and there's all sorts of things I'm not thinking about but yeah, that's an interesting thought.
Often maybe when we think, when we're saying oh capitalism this and oh the company's this,
we're not really thinking about the people, we're thinking about larger entities than
the people. But we often blame the people, like the individuals at the head, the CEOs
and the board of directors and the rich people and all that kind of stuff, but how much is
that accurate? How much does that actually help?
[
