I don't know what I need or want, how am I supposed to tell her?
How am I supposed to tell her what I feel when I'm fucking so confused?
But everything I do seems to hurt or confuse her, and I desperately want to avoid that.
But I don't know how to do this.
[Sigh]
I don't know if she wants to just do things like friends tomorrow, but life's not that clean.
I had a phone call to try and clear the air, and nothing happened. I just cried and hung up.
She said she'd been uncomfortable since I talked the other night because things had been short and clipped.
[Sigh]
I just don't know what to do.
No matter what I do, it seems to be the wrong thing.
[Crying]
I can't talk to her about it. It's not her problem anymore.
And that just makes it hurt even more.
I don't understand what's happening right now, and I'm scared.
[Sigh]
I don't know what to do. I just desperately want to call her back and explain everything.
But I know I'm just going to confuse her and hurt her more, and I don't know what the fuck I'm feeling or what to say.
[Sigh]
How am I supposed to fucking see her tomorrow and pretend like everything's okay?
And I don't even know why things aren't okay! I don't fucking know what's happening!
I don't know what to do, and I feel utterly trapped. Every decision seems like the wrong decision.
Doing nothing and just trying to get on with things and go see her like we're friends tomorrow.
Probably for the last time, for a long time. Feels like the wrong thing to do.
Calling her. What I want to do is drive over to her place and talk to her and tell her how I feel and what's happening.
But I don't fucking know how I feel and what's happening other than I'm sad and I'm confused and I'm hurt.
And I just want her to understand me, and I wasn't trying to hurt her and I don't want her to confuse her.
And all of that is just going to hurt and confuse her.
So I don't fucking know what the right thing to do is. Maybe we should just cut contact.
She doesn't seem to want that and every time I talk about it, it hurts her.
I fucking don't know what to do.
I don't know what I need. I don't know what she needs.
I fucking don't know what to do.
And I don't understand how I feel.
I thought that was fine, mostly.
But then fucking suddenly, really strong emotions out of nowhere.
God, I'm confusing.
How am I supposed to not confuse her when I'm fucking confused?
I feel like the bottom has dropped out of my world.
I feel like, I don't know, I was just trying to explain how I felt.
She asked me if I was upset and I was just trying to explain.
And it hurt and confused her and made her angry and she feels like she's in the right.
And I don't know if I'm in the right one. I don't know if there is a right.
I don't know what to do or say.
[heavy breathing]
Oh, God.
I just wanted her to understand.
I just wanted to be understood.
It's so uncomfortable and strange between us at the moment and I don't know what to do about it.
To be honest, it kind of has been since the end of our last night together.
On that Saturday where I kind of just shut down because I felt so upset that she was so upset.
And I felt so misunderstood.
Fuck.
I just want to be understood.
It just seems to hurt her.
I don't know why I feel like I'm the fucking problem when...
I wasn't asking her to give up her night with her parents.
I wasn't asking that at all.
All I wanted was to come over that night and give her a hug.
And that seems to confuse and hurt her.
I don't even know why I wanted to see her just before she goes.
I don't know what the fuck is happening.
