Listening to episode, I'm actually not sure what episode it is, but it's an episode of
the Australian Finance Podcast, the Brask Finance Podcast, the episode is on how to
audit your life. She talks about how some of the reasons that your life isn't the way
you want it to be, talks about one of the reasons that your life might not be the way
you want it to be, and in not spending your time or your life the way you want to, maybe
that you don't have good boundaries around things that are taking up your time, basically
like you might be doing too much at work because people have asked you and you don't know how
to say no, etc. etc. And she says having boundaries is a skill,
and a good way to practice it is to create a pyramid of boundaries, basically from the
ones that you find the easier, you might find that you have different levels of difficulty
with putting up boundaries in different areas if you know what, and you might find that
the difference, you might, so you basically make a pyramid of the areas of your life and
how, basically from easiest to hardest of the areas of your life where you find it easiest
to hardest to put up boundaries, and then you pick, because it's a skill and you need
to build it, you pick the one that you're already the best at, like you'd pick the
easiest, and you work on that so that you get better at the thing that you're already
okay at so that you can more easily build other boundaries, basically.
Let's do it slightly more, and she says the basic, the best place to start at the bottom
of the boundary list, the boundary pyramid, is with the service industry where at the
bottom of that list it's probably the easiest to set boundaries where you are paying somebody
to do something for you, like give you a massage, like if you're at a massage or if you're
buying food at a restaurant, that's the best place to start practising because you can
ask them to change the pressure when you're getting a massage. If you are buying food
and they don't do it the way you want, if they don't do it the way you want, you ask
for them to do it differently for you, you do it again, fix the mistake, etc. etc. As
she said, if you're listening to that and that makes you feel uncomfortable, you have
a problem with setting boundaries. And I have spent most of my life struggling with that.
So I think I'm a bit better at it now, but I struggle even with the lowest level of setting
boundaries and that's a really good place to start practising boundaries.
Going to, you know, anytime something is wrong at restaurants or I need more food or, not
anymore food, like it's taking forever to get the food or there's a mistake or anything
like that where I am paying for somebody's service, start practising actually asking
for what I need, what I want, what I've paid for because that's their fucking job, they
get paid for it. She says the next step after making that list of that pyramid of boundaries
and starting to work on actually setting those boundaries within that pyramid, the second
step is to start sitting with, like basically noticing what you feel when you set a boundary.
Pay attention to what you're feeling, witness and sit with the feelings you are having when
you set a boundary, basically. And you should recognise that if you've just...
Give me a sec, get this fucking prick out from behind me.
Fucking hell dude, you need to calm your fucking tits.
Basically if you are... if you've had a lifetime of struggling with this and you basically
have been a people pleaser for quite a while, which I definitely am, then you will... it's
very normal to feel uncomfortable and feel guilty when you set, particularly feel guilty
when you set a boundary, which absolutely fucking happened in my relationship with Holly
constantly, all the fucking time. And you need to try and just sit with the emotion
and be with it, not try to distract yourself from it or backtrack and renege on your boundary
so that the discomfort goes away. You need to stand up to the boundary and then sit through
that discomfort and build the skills of being able to do that so you can have boundaries
in your life, basically, and not just be at the whims of everybody else, which is definitely
what I do. I'll mention that often people who struggle
with this will set a boundary and then either over explain or over apologise for setting
a boundary, which is also something I did quite a lot.
Apparently over time that feeling of guilt will shift to a feeling of confidence, she
says empowerment, but really I guess confidence as you learn to stand up for yourself, which
is something I desperately need to fucking do. And then eventually you get to a point
where it's not that you don't even really have feelings about it anymore, it's just
a normal part of what you do, you have boundaries and you stand up for them.
Which sounds fucking amazing, being able to just have a boundary, know what you need,
know what you want and stand up for it. Sounds pretty fucking nice, I'd love to be able to
do that and just not feel anything about it, just be confident and happy to be like, yep,
that's what I need, I'm just going to do that, I'm going to ask for this.
Which is really closely intimately tied as well to what Nietzsche talks about with building
our own value systems and a lot of what the philosophy I'm listening to at the moment,
not being part of the crowd and just going along with it what everybody wants, but actually
working out what it is in life that you want, what you think, what you need and standing
up for that. Which can be fucking difficult, but we really do spend most of our childhood
and teenage years and early adulthood learning to conform to what other people want. School
is basically a system for doing that among other things. It grinds that into us, work
grinds that into us. Yeah.
All of this kind of directly, it kind of ties into what's his name, Mark Manson, the video
I watched last night that he talks about where lessons for your twenties. Another lesson
for your twenties I like how to be successful, I can't remember what it is, but it's basically
like learning, building the skill and learning how to be disliked and how to be okay with
being disliked is a superpower because if you're not okay with being disliked you will do whatever,
you will fucking morph yourself, you will do a lot to be liked by other people which
means you will constantly be doing stuff, you'll be saying yes to people for things
that you don't want to do, you don't have the time for, you will spend so much of your
life trying to please other people to be liked and to fit in that you won't live your own
life, you won't get to do the things you want to do, you'll grow resentful, et cetera, et
cetera. We all struggle with that, Holly struggled with that quite a lot, I am definitely fucking
struggling with it at the moment. Yeah. It's really hard sometimes to know that balance
between you can't be liked by everyone and people will dislike you for the fucking smallest
shit, they will dislike you because of small things that you've said or because you disagree
with them or because you want to do things a different way. You can't just piss everybody
off all the time but you also can't spend your life trying to get along with absolutely everyone
because people are going to, no matter what you do, people are going to dislike you and
if you spend your life trying to do that to make that go away then you're not living your
own life and I do that. So boundaries and all of this boundaries is so intimately tied
up with this and it's also probably so intimately tied up with part of why I feel shitty about
my life and why I struggle so much with time because I'm probably not doing things the
way I want to do them. And this is so interesting, she's like directly tying what I'm learning
about with philosophy and my therapy and setting our own values and standing by those things
and staying up for ourselves and setting boundaries and learning to sit with our uncomfortable
emotions and regulate them and regulate ourselves. Which, you know, I never learnt, I was never
taught any of those things basically so I have to kind of learn all of it now where
I lack the skills and life's a fucking lot. So no wonder life is fucking overwhelming
but she's tying all of that directly to finances which is fucking fascinating. And if you can
build this standing up for yourself and standing up for your boundaries and having boundary
skill in all areas of your life you are basically getting used to how to have hard conversations
in all areas of your life basically. I think probably the most important part of all of
this is I need, I think the thing I probably need to recognise, perhaps even more than
recognising my emotions, is starting to recognise and pay attention to when I am either not
having boundaries, which a good way to do that is probably to notice, because it's still
tied into the emotions, it's probably to notice when I'm feeling resentful, frustrated or
stressed. Those are probably good ways to notice, those are probably good indicators
that I'm not setting up for my boundaries and then from that notice turn that into,
like from there go to I am not having, I am either, I don't have a boundary here or like
I haven't put, I have like not noticed that I need to have a boundary here because or,
I know I have a boundary, like happened with Holly quite a few times, I know I have a boundary
here and this is not something I want but I'm not standing up for it. That's really
important, noticing that, building that awareness. The reason I need to do that is that I spend,
probably already spend quite a lot of my life not recognising my boundaries, I'm just kind
of doing it unconsciously which means that I'm doing it probably quite a lot without
recognising it, which is probably where a lot of my negative feelings come from. So
if I can start building that skill that's very powerful and probably changed my quality
of life quite a lot. The other thing is, I've got one more thing.
