It's 3.30pm on Monday the 22nd of May.
Are you fucking kidding me?
Fucking lights.
Right, yes. It's 4.30pm. I'm just leaving Holly's place.
Monday the 15th, 9th, 20th, 22nd, I'm just leaving Holly's place.
Quite probably the last time, this is the last time we're going to have a chance to see each other before we go, before she goes to Melbourne.
It's quite sad. This may potentially be, it's unlikely, I will probably see her again, but this could potentially be the last time I'll ever see her.
It's probably the last time I'll ever see her parents' place.
And it was a nice day. It was a really nice day, actually. It was a bit uncomfortable.
But I didn't feel like I needed to talk about any of the things that I was struggling with.
I was just spending time in each other's company. It was quite lovely.
She's just texting me.
It wasn't, saying goodbye was a bit perfunctory. I was kind of hoping for a little bit more. That's why I wanted to come out of the night just before she left.
I have a bit of an emotional goodbye, but I don't think she didn't want that. She didn't really have the time, which is why we're seeing each other today, but I think she wanted to avoid the emotions around it.
So kind of just a short hug and a goodbye. See you in Melbourne if you come down.
But that's it. We're done. She's off to Melbourne without me. Our relationship's over. Our intimate relationship, anyway.
I guess it's now time to get on with life. It's kind of what I've been trying to do, anyway. It may be a bit easier to start doing now that we're not in the same state.
I felt I was crying a little bit as I was walking away, but it was a nice last day to have together.
It was a nice last day to have together, and I think that we'd already done quite a lot of the processing.
We'd kind of done a lot of the processing, we'd kind of had a lot of the big emotions. This was just the final goodbye. We'd already kind of said goodbye several times, but this was the actual final goodbye.
It felt a little bit inclimactic, but things don't have to necessarily be things, and it was nice. It was sad, it was nice. I feel, I'm not quite sure how I feel right now.
Kind of like, oh, here. Okay, time to get on with things a little bit. Like a little bit like it now, I feel like I can move on or something. Not sure. Not quite to that extent, but it feels like the closing of a chapter, I guess.
It's time to move into the next, which is sad. But right now, as I was walking away, I was, and right now, not as much. I was very fucking sad last night.
So yeah, that's that. That's a wrap. Not Holly and I. It isn't. Like, we'll still probably be in contact, and I'll probably go down and see her in Melbourne, and we'll still have a bit of a close relationship.
All things considered, but honestly, I'll probably have a more emotional relationship with her than I do with any of my other friends, considering I've kind of discovered that most of my friendships are pretty emotionally shallow, and I had a very not-that with Holly.
So, yeah.
Yeah.
So, it's not the end, but, you know, this is the last time we'll see each other in Brisbane, probably. It just, it feels, it feels meaningful. It feels like an end, like a closing of a chapter, of a closing of the book, end of a chapter.
Us both moving, kind of moving on, sort of thing.
