thing to that episode of the Australian Finance Podcast again about how to order your life.
She makes a really good point about how when you're practising a skill of standing up for
boundaries, if you start too big, like saying, if you've had a history of doing family things
when you didn't want to, maybe you have a bad family relationship, but you keep going
and doing like, basically, a colleague's family relationship with her family, if you jump
straight into saying, "No, I'm actually going to not come to family Christmas this Christmas,"
and they react badly, it's going to basically put you off of trying to build that skill.
Not only is it harder to do, it actually actively will stop you from, it will stop your progress
from building that skill as a whole because you might have a really bad reaction and you'll
go, "Well, that's a bad idea. I'm just not going to do that anymore," and not try. Whereas
if you start with the smaller, easier things, you'll gain confidence and you'll learn how
to regulate yourself through the process.
They also talk about how when we talk about growth and development, we're normally focusing
on kind of like the career development stuff, career progression or doing the next diploma
or degree, and we don't focus on the emotional intelligence skills or the relational skills
that allow our day-to-day lives and our day-to-day interactions to be much easier. I think that's
a really good point. If your day-to-day interactions are difficult and you're triggering for you
and emotionally tiring and hard, then yeah, life's going to be fucking difficult. Life's
going to be fucking tiring. I think that's probably, my problems with boundaries is probably
part of why I'm fucking tired all the time and don't enjoy life that much.
