Holly and I just had a conversation. It's 9.13pm on 24th May. Holly and I just had a conversation over the phone.
The result of which is basically that we are definitely fully ending it. We're not going to try again.
We may not even be friends, potentially. We're definitely going to go basically no contact for a while.
Just have basically not talk for at least a month or so. For the first couple of months of her being down in Melbourne.
And then maybe try and re-establish contact after that. But basically she said she tried to make it work.
To see if we could do it again now. And I said no every time. So she's not trying to try again.
And it feels like she couldn't see the ways in which we weren't working.
And just we're going to try then. Even though we wouldn't have fucking worked.
And then somehow, but if it doesn't happen now it's never going to happen.
It's like she wanted it now and then because I said no. It's like never going to happen.
Because she can't entertain the possibility that she has to move on. Which makes sense. She has to protect herself.
If the way to do that is to just move on then... I don't know.
I've already written out about this a lot in my journal. Obviously I'm fucking devastated.
I'm too tired to express emotions. I'm too shell shocked to express emotions. I'll try again tomorrow morning.
One of the things that really upset me is that she said even now she's been putting in effort.
Saying goodbye and seeing each other again and texting is tiring because she's still putting in effort to be nice.
And to control what she's saying. And because if she hadn't she would have told me what she thought three weeks ago.
And we probably would have had a fight and never talked to each other again.
It's just... like I haven't been doing the same. Like she didn't fucking hurt me.
I am too hurt and I have been too hurt for a while. Probably since last year. To really be able to empathise and connect with her painfully.
There's been moments where I have been really tired. Like sad. Like just after we broke up.
But every time she talks about how I hurt her all I can feel is anger.
That she doesn't understand the way she hurts me. Hurt me. I think it's maybe irreconcilable.
I think we've been trying to reach out to each other and reach towards each other and get there and connect.
And reconcile that difference and understand each other.
And we just haven't been able to because neither of us have been able to see past our own pain.
And I don't think either of us, I'm not sure either of us will ever be able to. That might just be it.
If we're not trying again that's the end of the relationship. So we'll never probably get the chance.
There's probably not much point. Which I don't know, if we can't do that maybe there's no point being friends either.
I'm not sure. Or maybe if we try to be friends that's how we'll reconcile that. I don't know.
But I think that probably explains quite a lot of how I felt about things.
And why I struggled with her complaints and her pain.
Because I felt like I had been hurt in so many ways. I had crushed myself down and been trampled so much in our relationship.
That I just couldn't sympathise with her pain anymore.
On top of the fucking exhaustion. Am I dealing with my own shit?
And I think the thing that really hurts, hurts the most every time, and I think it's actually the thing that hurts and makes me angry and makes me shut down.
Is that she says every time she raises how much she did, how much emotional work she did, how much she had to work around my emotions and try not to upset me and all that kind of stuff.
And try and make things work for me.
And it's like she doesn't notice, and didn't notice all the ways that I did things for her.
The fucking lengths I went to for her, how much I fucking contorted myself for her.
I think probably part of it is to do with the fact that I didn't get my needs met around time and space and stuff.
And I felt bad about that. And in some ways, she made me, I'm sorry, now that we're up to this point, she made me feel that way.
It's as strongly as, obviously it's not that strong, but nobody can make you feel anything.
But she straight out said that's not what a relationship is when I ask for things to be a bit more the way I needed them.
So I fucking contorted myself to meet her. I did so much for her mentally, physically.
And it was enough, apparently. That's not true.
And every time she says all these things that I did that I never fucking asked her to do, granted some of them she did so that she could have her needs met.
But things like, you know, all these things, it feels like she only notices the ways that, all the work that she put in and doesn't notice the enormous amount of fucking work that I put in.
Which ground me, honestly it ground me down, it fucking exhausted me. The work I put into that fucking relationship.
And every time she says stuff like that, all it feels like is, and then she says, you know, I'm not saying that you didn't do anything.
I'm not disregarding what you've done. But it certainly fucking feels like she has. She is.
She has since last year, that's why, big part of where all that pain I was feeling last year came from, which made it so hard to fucking come back from.
Because every time she talked, we couldn't reach each other because we couldn't reach each other past the pain.
And both of us were doing things that neither of the other, like I was doing shit that she never asked me to do.
And she was doing the same.
She was putting herself on each other.
And then can't get past that pain. And that's fucking sad. And it hurts.
And if I really stop and think about it and delve into that, I'll be fucking sobbing my eyes out for hours at the horrendous nature of that.
Fucking sad that is. How painful that is. How much we loved each other and how much we just couldn't reach past that hurt.
That guts me.
But it was the right move to break up.
No relationship shouldn't be as much work as that relationship was.
I've learnt that. That's not how hard a relationship should be.
Relationships should be hard, but they shouldn't be that hard.
Unfortunately, a lot of relationships might be that hard for me in some ways.
But a fair amount of that probably came down to us together.
