So I think this is probably another one, well it's one of the ones I just talked about previously,
but I think it's something I'd like to talk about a little bit more.
Feeling of incompetence and lacking ability to do things for myself.
It plays out in so many relationships where I will maybe try to do something like open the lid on something,
or I'll try to get something down from up somewhere, or connect something, or look at something where a lead is going in,
or try to work out how some mechanism works, etc.
People, I'll try and not really immediately be able to get it, I just don't immediately know how to do it,
and people don't give me a chance to...
I can barely ever remember a time when people have just given me the time to do the thing, to try and work it out.
I think there's somebody at the door which I don't want to talk to.
I just got completely distracted by the person turning up at the door, didn't go talk,
and then I was thinking, "Oh, this is probably a good opportunity to practice boundaries and tell them to get fucked and piss off."
But I didn't, I sat here and didn't talk to them instead.
There's only really, really one time I can remember it happening,
and it was last year when Holly and I went away to the sunny coast, and we were hanging out with that.
Often when people are waiting for me to do something, I get really anxious, I get performance anxiety,
like I'm being watched, which I am, and judged.
It's like anxiety and fear of being judged and watched, because I fucking do every time.
They get frustrated and take the thing away from me and do it, and it got to the point eventually where I pretty much stopped trying.
I didn't ask other people to do the thing rather than trying to do it myself.
It played out in my relationship with Holly, because she's impatient.
Because she's impatient and because she had feelings around the unfairness of the fact that she...
The gender differences where women are expected to do a lot of this for at least house tasks and stuff,
and I wasn't. She took that as, in some ways, I'm a sheltered baby boy,
where she had to deal with a whole bunch of shit and that's not fair kind of thing.
I always felt really... I fucking bristled that quite a lot.
But she also was quite understanding a few times as well.
But yeah, she did often get impatient with me and would do this exact same thing, despite the fact that I talked her about it many times.
She'd take things off of me.
And she said, "It's like you have developed these ways of behaving to signal to people to take things off of you.
It's like you're trying to get them to do it."
And I know maybe unconsciously that is the case in some ways, because eventually I did just say, "Look, fuck it.
Hey, can you do this thing for me rather than doing it myself?"
But I felt very attacked around that.
Because it's a really fucking... it's a very...
It's a big feature of my life and something I feel very emotional about.
Like she was basically blaming me for it, saying, "I've had to fucking learn how to do shit.
You're a man. That's not fair. Fuck you."
Kind of thing.
Which just really fucking hurt and pissed me off, to be honest.
It was probably some of the most hurtful things in our relationship.
That stuff.
I often felt like... often felt not often, but this is digressing.
I think that's part of the reason why some of my difficulties with her feelings around gender and feminism came from.
I sometimes felt like she was blaming me or saying things I was doing was an example of certain things.
Without really trying to understand where...
Sometimes she did, to be fair.
Particularly later on.
But it's like she was just not understanding the specific...
Not trying to... listening to or understanding the specifics of my situation and the things I've been through and why I do those or don't do those things.
It's like, "It's not my fucking fault that I haven't learnt those things. I'm only just becoming aware of this stuff."
Just because it's a gendered thing doesn't mean I'm doing it because I'm lazy or because I expect women to do it.
It's because I'm fucking terrified.
Just because you have a fucking bone up your ass about feminism and gender differences doesn't mean that that's applying here.
And you are over-applying this and you are trampling over me and my feelings and the fucking process of doing that.
And my lived experience.
Which is something you fucking get up and arms about all the time, but you fucking do it to me.
Anyway, I'm on the data home.
