So, um...
What's her name? Fuck.
Trisha. Trisha has asked me to think about and write down all the messages I received as a child.
It's been six weeks, or five weeks since I last saw her and I've only really, I haven't like sat down to really think about it.
I've kind of by happenstance thought about it as part of other things.
But I need to really make a concerted effort.
So...
Although having said that, I think I kind of in some ways was thinking about... I wasn't sitting down to think about this, but I was thinking about it yesterday.
Let me just have a quick look, because I wrote quite a lot yesterday about things. Let me have a quick look at that to jog my memory.
So not all of this is necessarily about messages I received as a child, but it pertains.
So I'm actually going to read out this...
thing that I did. This journal entry I wrote.
This is on the 14th of May, 2023 on a Sunday.
I think I maybe spent a lot of time in our discussions trying to be heard and understood, which sometimes made it hard to listen.
I think this would happen in any relationship I'd get into, because I have a deep need to be heard and understood, both because I think I have things worth saying,
and because there's an emotional will inside me that's desperate to be seen, heard, understood and to connect.
This is probably the reason that sex sometimes makes me cry, and probably stems from some of the stuff that, from childhood, that I'm only just at the beginning of trying to unpack.
As well as my feelings of loneliness, being unwanted, rejection, shame, etc.
I wonder if this was cyclical, as in it started in some ways when I was young, which made me more vulnerable to feeling the way I did as a teen,
because I yearned for connection, which I never got, or was rejected, which confirmed those feelings.
Actually, bugger it, there's not really any point doing this.
I'm going to do a transcription of this, but there's not really any point to...
I've already written down all this stuff, so I'm just going to think instead.
I think... I don't know if it was necessarily childhood, but I know that I definitely internalized feelings of, in my teen years,
internalized feelings of rejection. I've written it down here as...
I spent a long time, I don't know how much this is necessarily stemming from childhood, but I spent a long time in my life feeling lonely and alone,
and scared of being not alone, I guess. I desperately wanted to touch, for example, physical touch was something I yearned for so much.
I spent time thinking about even just hugging someone.
I don't quite know where that came from, because it's not like...
It's not like I... I feel like I didn't have a very deprived childhood when it came to affection.
I don't remember really feeling... I remember hugging Mum, I'm pretty sure, although maybe I'm transposing memories of adulthood back onto then.
Maybe we didn't hug all that much, but it's been hard to remember. I thought we did.
I can remember being able to talk to Mum a bit about what I was dealing with, my feelings around when I was really young,
or when I was in primary school, my feelings around Andrew, the kid that I was constantly having all these problems with.
I think I remember talking to her a bit about him.
I remember being able to talk to her about Tristan, and the struggles I was having with Tristan, and not really wanting to be his friend,
and feeling really guilty and shitty about that, and also feeling guilty and shitty about Andrew.
And I remember... I don't know if they were messages, maybe they were internalised messages.
I remember having moments of remembering myself a little bit younger. This is ages ago when I was younger, remembering myself even younger.
I have a memory of an event, and a memory of remembering that event, where I was in grade 2 or 3,
and I think maybe grabbed one of the other kids and yelled at them because they were playing the game wrong, or something like that,
or "I don't know what to do", or "do this", or "this is what I want to do", or "this is what I want us to do", or something like that.
And I think it was a little bit later when I was... the stuff with Andrew was happening, and I looked back at that and felt really guilty,
because I felt guilty about the way things were playing out with Andrew, where it was like he... I couldn't... I couldn't...
I couldn't...
I felt like I couldn't...
navigate that situation. Particularly when it was me, Andrew, and Mark, and I think maybe I did like Andrew in some ways,
although part of it was definitely him, and Mark was my best friend, and I was hanging out with Mark all the time,
and Mark kept wanting to spend time with Andrew. So I kind of like had to,
but he just kept doing things that I didn't want to... I was actually thinking about it.
I wonder if this has something to do with my difficulties with putting up boundaries,
because... God, and I never spoke to Holly about any of this.
Fucking hell. So much I just didn't tell her about.
I just stopped after the first couple of months, clammed up.
Wow, I'm really... I really need to feel really safe.
But I wonder if my inability to... part of the reason I struggle to set my boundaries and have...
and see that my needs are okay is that I really struggled with Andrew because he kept doing things that hurt me.
Like he was physically violent, and I just didn't want to deal with that.
But I didn't know how to... I don't think I wanted to really hurt his feelings,
because I didn't... well, I think I ended up kind of almost hating him,
but it was really hard to navigate because he was friends with my best friend.
I started off being friends with him and kind of liking him, but then he just constantly kept...
He clearly just had some fucking behavioral issues, like he probably had a shitty home life,
and I can't even quite remember what happened, but I remember him hitting me a few times.
Like he would... he'd lash out a bit and he'd get really angry at stuff.
It's really hard to remember. I think he was actually a sweet kid, other than that.
But I just... I didn't want to deal with that.
I didn't want to be friends with somebody who couldn't control themselves and would fucking hit me.
That was... in retrospect, that was a boundary for me.
And my teacher, my grade five teacher, shamed me for it,
because he clearly also was... him and his parents came to speak to...
well, at least him, but I think it was him and his parents came to speak to my grade five teacher,
because I think we'd been friends for two or three years,
and it was this thing that was playing out between us of chances,
where I would... I would be friends and he'd do something.
I can't remember exactly what he did.
I can't remember exactly what I did to... what I had said maybe to make him angry,
or what I can't really remember many of the details, all I remember is that he would...
I'd say, "Yes, let's be friends," and he would do that for a bit,
and then he'd either say... I don't think he was saying things.
I don't think he was bullying me or anything. I think he was physically violent.
Not beating, bashing me or anything. He wasn't super abusive.
He was just... I think he probably just struggled to contain his anger and his excitement,
so he'd hit me, even just a little bit, and that made me really uncomfortable,
and I didn't want to deal with it. So I basically tried to end our friendship,
because I knew... really, I didn't know it at the time,
but I knew that I didn't want to be around this kid, because he's a fucking problem.
He was behaving towards me in ways that I didn't want to accept,
and I was actually pretty... clearly knew that, but...
Yeah, so I'd say no, and then something would happen.
Usually either he'd come back and say, "Look, I'm really sorry about that.
I'm really sorry I did that," or somebody would ask him to apologize to me,
or often Mark, Mark English, my best friend at the time, would actually just start talking to him,
like behind my back kind of thing, and I kind of like...
I was... yeah, I don't know, maybe I was kind of hoping or expecting Mark to, like,
follow my lead and not talk to this guy, which is kind of cruel to Andrew, but...
Yes, anyway, I'd feel like I would have to kind of be friends with him again,
whether that's because he would come back and say, "I'm sorry,"
or because other people would tell me I should, often because maybe Mark asked me to,
or I know at least once... like, we stopped, I stopped talking to him,
I stopped being friends with him, Mark said, "Yeah, I'm going to do the same,"
and then I'd kind of like see him sitting with Mark and just being friends, and he hadn't told me.
So I felt like I think maybe I did like him in some ways, I'm not quite sure,
like I can't really remember the relationship all that much.
But all I remember is that we kept having this thing where we'd stop being friends,
and then he'd come back, and I'd say, "Okay, I'll give you another chance,"
and that kept happening again and again and again, and...
One day, after this had happened quite a few times, he came and...
I don't know if it was him or his parents or both of them came and spoke to my fifth grade teacher
and said... and I guess complained about what was happening,
and I felt like I was the one who was... I kind of felt like the victim.
At the time I felt like the victim, you know, now I can see that everybody had it up hard to play,
but at the time I felt like the victim because I was the one he was fucking hitting,
and it felt like he complained, you know, he was kind of almost bullying me,
and he complained to the teacher and didn't... and I was the one who copped shit.
She got angry at me, and she got angry at me about the thing to do with the chances.
She literally used the term "chances".
So she basically shamed me for trying to navigate my boundaries around being mistreated, essentially.
Like, I wasn't... it was not a relationship I wanted to have because I didn't want to...
like, even if I liked him, I didn't want to be treated that way, and I tried to stand up for that,
and my teacher shamed me for it.
And honestly, probably other people did too.
You know, Mark obviously... I don't know, it's hard to... all I know is my teacher absolutely, definitely did shame me for it,
and I often felt like I had to kind of take him back or I didn't want to hurt him so I would be friends with him again, kind of thing.
So, you know, there's a fucking strong message that your boundaries and needs are not important,
and nobody really helped me navigate that.
I don't think... like, I kind of remember talking to Mum about it a little bit, but...
yeah, I don't know.
I don't really know how Mum and Dad reacted. I can't really remember.
I think they were kind of annoyed for me, but I'm not sure they really gave me all that much help to navigate it.
But honestly, I can't remember. I really can't remember how things went.
But a similar sort of thing, honestly, basically the same thing happened with...
not quite the same, but a similar sort of thing happened in high school with Tristan,
who was... he wasn't... he didn't do anything to me.
He wasn't abusive or... he never did... he was very nice to me,
but he was very... he was being bullied a lot in school, and he was very reactive.
Which, you know, is fucking fair.
But... yeah, I don't know.
He was... I can't quite remember.
I just remember eventually not really wanting to be friends with him
because of the way he acted to other people, or around other people.
He was being bullied quite badly, but he would get violent.
He would be violent.
He'd try to hit the people who were bullying him, or he'd kind of bite back sort of thing.
Which would just often make people laugh at him more.
And thinking about it now, I feel kind of shitty.
I feel kind of guilty for not standing up for him or standing by him,
but I just... I found the relationship really difficult
because he acted in ways that made me uncomfortable.
He probably reminded me of Andrew.
He was kind of similar to Andrew. He was a troubled kid.
You know, I kind of became friends with him and actually the other Andrew
that I knew in high school, both of them because they were kind of outcasts.
They were... although Andrew wasn't that much of an outcast,
but he was... I don't know, Andrew was like kind of an outcast,
but he was like... people made fun of him, but like on the sly,
in ways he wouldn't understand, but also kind of like didn't,
and they were kind of nice to him at the same time.
Whereas Tristan, everybody was just mean to.
They were both kind of a bit odd basically, and they were troubled.
Well, Tristan was troubled.
Tristan didn't really have many other friends,
so I kind of ended up becoming friends with him because... I don't know.
I felt bad. I wanted him to... I wanted them to be okay,
and I felt like it was the right thing to do,
and also I probably just liked parts of them.
But I felt really guilty. I found... it wasn't the same sort of thing
where we'd break up and stop being friends,
and then keep being friends, and stop being friends, and keep being friends,
and he was never abusive to me, but I had a lot of...
I spent at least a year basically not really wanting to be friends with him,
being like, "How did I get stuck being friends with this guy?
He's annoying the fuck out of me, and making me really uncomfortable,
and etc., etc., which I can't quite remember why."
And... but like unable to stop to end the relationship, the friendship,
because I felt really shitty because he was not having a good time.
He was being bullied, and he didn't really have any other friends,
but I was really struggling to be his friend.
It was a source of quite a lot of emotional discomfort and distress, to be honest.
Um...
Yeah.
Yeah, I've left it for a little bit.
I might actually have to stop this because I kind of forgot what I was talking about.
