I'm sorry Holly. This is all so complicated. I knew that what we were doing, what you were
doing, it wasn't anything to do with the money. It was just about trying to stay connected.
And it was wonderful. It was so wonderful and it was fun and exciting. It was like recapturing
early days of our relationship. It was like when things were really good. They were really
good. They were really fun and exciting. We had so much chemistry. So much love and tenderness.
But that all kind of got crushed out of our relationship and of me in some ways. From
my end it was the pressures we were under. It was my fears. My inability to tell you
what I needed or what I wanted because I didn't know how to talk to you. Because I felt like
it was bad or wrong and I couldn't bring myself to even face what I was feeling, let alone
communicate it. I spent so much time afraid. It's gorgeous here at the moment. It's beautiful.
I'm up on Ilden Hill doing the circuit track around it. The sun's going down over Mt Coot-tha
and shining down over the trees. I feel like I failed you in so many ways. I know you want
to try again. Like now. You don't want to let go just yet. I'm tired. I'm tired of feeling
like a problem. I'm tired of feeling tired. I'm tired of being in pain. I'm tired of hurting
and I'm tired of feeling. I spent so much time crushed under the weight of my own expectations
and my own needs. I was never able to, you know, all of that chemistry and that joy and
that excitement that we had that Monday just gone recaptured. That disappeared. Didn't
disappear, it was still there underneath everything but it kind of was drowned under circumstance
but more than that it was drowned under... I don't know, it was like... I couldn't feel
some of that anymore because I was scared to talk. I was scared to communicate. In some
ways wasn't getting what I needed. I just needed so much space all the fucking time
and that was so hard to do with us because it hurt you so I never felt like it was okay.
I just don't want to struggle with that anymore. I really don't and you know, you've talked
about maybe we could continue and just have a long distance relationship. It's like we...
it is kind of the space but at the same time I just don't want to. It's not that I don't
want you, I just don't... I still love you. I still wish our relationship had worked out
but it's like I just... I don't feel capable of trying anymore at the moment. You know,
I often find myself not wanting to talk to you, wanting to keep my distance. Even now
when you text me there's a little part of me that's like "Ugh, no, I don't want to talk,
leave me alone." Sometimes. Sometimes I'm really into it. That's just going to hurt and confuse
you and I just don't want to deal with that anymore. I don't want to deal with the pain
I feel around it. I don't want to deal with the pain that it causes you. It's not that
I don't want you, I just... I don't know how to navigate, I don't know how to describe
it. It's like I want you. I don't want to be alone and I want you but I also desperately
want to be alone at the same time. It's really difficult to navigate or explain. It's that
time of day where the sun's coming in at just the right angle so you can see all the bugs
dancing in the plume beams. It's my favourite time of day, it's really gorgeous. There's
a lot of casuarines around here too, they're also really lovely. I am definitely pushing
feelings away. I keep getting these little bubbles pop up in my mind of memories or hopes
and dreams that have had to be left behind. And I so often feel like "Ah, I'm OK, I'm
kind of moving on." And then those come up and it's like I just reflexively push them
away and don't give them time to settle. So am I really over things or am I just suppressing?
Walking the paths around this hill reminds me of walking in the hills in Korea, particularly
after school. It feels like the same, just finished work on the way home, dropping faster
hill on the way home to go for a walk. It looks slightly like it with all the pine needles,
well casuarina needles on the floor. I'm definitely feeling that feeling of distance. It's hard
to connect with how I'm feeling, it's hard to connect with this gorgeous sun, well not
sun dappled, this gorgeous sunsetting afternoon I guess. It's really lovely here, I'm just
not really connecting with it all that much. I mean I guess I am quite sad so. It really
is a shame I feel so over Brisbane, because it really is quite a lovely place. Very picturesque
at times, particularly the inner city areas. It's like sometimes I get this little moment
where I can kind of connect with that and I recognise how kind of lovely and wonderful
it is. And then my normal feelings reassert themselves. The architectural character and
style of Brisbane is quite lovely. I think I often saw my need for space and time to
consider myself as selfish. It's kind of a need for freedom. It's a really strong desire
for freedom and... strong desire for freedom and... I wanted to make my own choices, I
guess. Make my own choices and do the things I want to do that I'm passionate about. I
think.
