I wonder if my fifth grade teacher getting angry at me about Andrew has something to
do with why I struggle with people getting angry at me. Why I often react in a... I don't
quite know how... how would you say... how could I say I react? I often kind of get angry
back or like... I don't know, I get deflated or... I don't react well. I often get quite
emotional. I often get quite emotional, often get... either like angry or feel guilty or...
angry or feel guilty or feel like it's unfair is quite often a thing and then I kind of
like ruminate about it, take it on and ruminate about it and kind of get sulky a bit. I wonder
if that has anything to do with my fifth grade teacher getting angry at me about Andrew because
I... I've just been listening to my previous... the one I did yesterday when I was talking
about Andrew and Tristan and I clearly felt like the situation was really unfair because
I felt like I was the one that was being bullied but the teacher only... but Andrew complained
to the teacher, didn't really... I clearly didn't really talk to him about what he was doing
and took Andrew's side so I had been getting bullied and kind of felt like I was being bullied
and then took that as... but she took his side, like I was the one who was in trouble. She
got shitty at me for the chances thing and being friendly, like kind of playing with
his friendship or something like that and didn't really listen to me about the fact
that I felt like I was being bullied or you know that's what it felt like at the time
so that clearly felt quite unfair to young Michael because it kind of is unfair and you
know I remember feeling really quite ashamed and guilty but also angry and she basically
shamed me and I remember how that emotionally impacted me quite a lot. I don't remember
it... I don't remember thinking... like I haven't really thought about it that much
beyond that when it happened but I remember it having an emotional impact at the time,
quite a large one and I felt very... I felt it was very unfair, I felt very... I felt
quite upset and angry and shamed I think, unless I'm reconstructing that. I definitely remember
having a strong emotional reaction at the time, that much I can definitely recall but
yeah I wonder if the way I react, especially when I feel like it's unfair or I feel like
it's... like some of the ways I reacted to Holly getting angry at me and the ways I was
like really hurt about some of the things she said about her getting angry at me, like
the way I reacted the other night at Mt Couther, I wonder if some of that is like a byproduct
or like triggering of that event that happened when I was younger where it kind of brought
up feelings of feeling like people are getting angry at me for unfair reasons almost. You
know, it's like I'm not the one who you should be getting angry at here, like this isn't
fair. Yeah, and... I think I'm going to realise how much this relationship with Holly is probably
going to leave all sorts of marks on me, although maybe a bit different from the ways when I
was young because I didn't know how to deal with them when I was young and I didn't know
that anything of these things were happening whereas I'm a bit more aware of some of this
stuff now. But... yeah, I think it's pretty likely that that has had an impact on the
way that I react to anger and also the ways that Mum and Dad used to get angry at me,
I probably felt somewhat similar, you know, like this isn't fair. You're getting angry
at me then you should, or like I haven't really done anything wrong, etc, etc. You know, because
I often felt like maybe it's a bit like I often was trying to do the right thing or
like I was trying so hard all the fucking time to be the good boy, to be the good kid,
you know, get good grades. Get good grades. Fucking radio just turned on. I'm going to
turn on radio to get good grades and you know, to step around everybody else and not hurt
everybody else and take care of everybody, you know, take on everybody else's needs and
then people getting angry at me, I was like, well fuck you, I'm doing fucking, I'm working
so hard to be right and you're getting angry at me, that's just not fair. It's like, I
don't know, I definitely think that probably played out in some ways in my relationship
with Holly. And I can definitely see that having played out in some ways given what
I've talked about a bit. Recently I could see that having played out where I was. A
wee lad. Yeah. I'm not sure if there's anything else to talk about. I'm not sure if there's
anything else to talk about here. I was just having some thoughts just before about how,
it's probably pretty likely that, yeah I was just saying before, it's probably pretty likely
that how things happen with Holly will kind of leave a bit of a mark. Particularly like
feeling like I was a problem. Feeling like I always was the problem and yeah, I don't
know. It's as much as I can really think about at the moment.
