Oh boy, this episode 173 on Simone Vesne for Roots is fucking something else. So many things
jumping out of my brain.
At 26 minutes he talks about how he goes through and asks, "What is it that makes, why do we
care about people? What is it that makes a person a person? Is it their physical makeup
is it their attitude is it their personality is it all these different things?" And she
says, "No, it must be because of all these things, not being the case, it must be something
that's impersonal. It's about there must be things located outside of their personhood
that makes them unique and sacred and irreplaceable." She says, "Because of all of this, what will
we do? How will we overcome all of these problems in society like the affliction and rootlessness
and inability of society to meet basic psychological needs and needs of the soul? Is there going
to be a political revolution that will overcome those which is often what gets pushed for?
That's the rhetoric that everything is about. Feminism, left wing, right wing, it's all
about fucking politics. It's always about politics." And I think that's probably to
do with our heritage basically. The French Revolution, Marxism, all that kind of stuff.
The modern world is kind of developed out of revolution. But what she says is that it's
not a political revolution that will bring about the changes that's needed to deal with
these problems. It's a spiritual revolution within individuals and that comes about through
the way that they pay attention, the way they pay attention and what they pay attention
to. And this is her ethical argument. To quote him as best, Stephen Weiss as best as I can,
she says, "It's not a political revolution to begin with that will bring about the change.
It's a spiritual revolution within each individual and the main weapon that this, the main weapon
that this revolution will be fought with is..." Hold on. Right. "The main weapon this spiritual
revolution will be fought with is the cultivation of a totally different kind..." Note the word
'cultivation' as well. "The cultivation of a totally different kind of attention." How
fucking interesting is that? And that kind of attention is what he talked about in the
previous episode on attention which is kind of like an openness. I'm going to actually,
because he quotes us directly and I can't remember exactly what he says, I'm going to
let him speak here. "...attention as it relates to our general thinking. Simone Vey described
it as, quote, 'Our thought should be empty, waiting, not seeking anything, but ready to
receive in its naked truth the object that is to penetrate it.' End quote." Note as well
the 'penetrate it' there that he's talking about that's very Heideggerian and very, what's
the term, what are they called? Object-oriented ontology. That kind of withdrawing of objects
from attention. The fact that what is real is the things that we can simultaneously shine
forth into our attention but also withdraw from our attention and are always outside of
our frame. Listen to this. "But another way of thinking of that is that this is a momentary
suspension of anything personal that you may be projecting onto reality. Or in other words,
to pay attention in this new way is to renounce the 'I', as she says, or to renounce the ego,
which to her open..." Renounce the ego. Escape from the prison of the ego. How much does
that line up with some of the things John Vivecki has talked about? She's talking about almost
killing the self. It's like that setting aside of one's own experience and what the meaning
you automatically bring. It's that moment in between the thing happening and the meaning
we give to it. It's allowing things, letting be that Heidegger talks about. Allowing things
to, giving ourself, setting aside the ego and what we put out onto reality. Setting
all of that aside for a moment and allowing the world to be as it is. How much does that
accord with how I think about trying to do things? Trying to listen to people. It's
listening. It's listening to the world. Not even necessarily listening. It's listening
in the sense of taking in from the senses what's there rather than active listening.
Really taking it in and actually hearing what is being said rather than only hearing a little
bit and then make it up the rest of yourself or jumping to conclusions. It's trying to
listen for intention. It's trying to listen for what the person is actually trying to
say, what's actually being said, etc. That active listening and the kind of relationships
that I tried to build with Holly and the skills those skills have been trying to build, they
are basically the application of this, setting aside the ego, is the application of this
within personal relationships. All of these things touch each other. They're all interrelated.
He says that she says, "Doing this, practising and mastering the skill allows us to experience
people on impersonal terms." I'm not quite sure what this means because it's also like,
that also sounds like we're dehumanising them, depersonalising them, but at the same
time that's clearly not what she's talking about because she cares greatly about what
makes a person a person and accepting other people's personhood to this.
Okay, give me one sec. It's kind of hard to do this while driving.
Judgments, assumptions that we usually bring to bear on every experience that we have,
which then leaves us more open to experiencing people on impersonal terms. To master this
skill would accomplish a few different things to Simone Vey, all of which would account
for nothing short of a spiritual transformation in most individuals. For one, it would allow
you to connect with any other human being on a level that isn't dependent upon your
personalities getting along, your cultures being.
I'll get back to that in a second, but notice the links here between attention, spirituality,
sacredness and mastery of skills and ways of seeing and connection. Connection between
people which everything I've been reading about in my vulnerability book talks about
how it's that connection, that being connected that makes life so meaningful and it's being
vulnerable and allowing ourselves to be present that creates that connection, which is kind
of hard to like. It's like we have to be ourselves and feel our feelings but also put those feelings
aside.
There was something else in amongst that as well that I wanted to note the connections
between attention, skill building, ways of seeing the world, opening to the world, sacredness
and all of those things and recognising people's personhood and empathy. But I can't quite
remember what it was.
Listen to this bit too and the ways that it kind of connects with what I struggled with
so much in my relationship with Holly and have been trying to learn how to do that connection
and making the other feel heard and listening to them wholeheartedly and all that kind of
thing. Okay, I'm going to rewind it.
So, the way to gain that connection and the way to basically to really at root the way
to, the skill to build to enable that what I was trying to do with Holly, have that connection
and empathy and really listening to them, to her is to set aside the self, set aside
the ego, set aside one's own justifications and assumptions and prejudices and biases
and all of that, which is very difficult to do, I will note. It's very, very fucking hard
to do but that's at the core of it. It's setting aside the self and being open to the other.
And this is the last point. Listen to this.
What this attention can offer people Simone Vey thinks is very similar to the Catholic
sacrament of the Eucharist, where you consume the body and blood of Christ and a piece of
God supposedly becomes a piece of you. What does she mean by that?
Well, if we think of this new form of attention as a new lens that we're viewing people through,
then imagine taking that lens and then pointing it towards the rest of the world. Imagine seeing
the world not in terms of how it relates to you or some personal project or set of assumptions
you have about it, where instead of always being in the process of creating new schemas
and new knowledge about it, you were just open, passively active, waiting for the universe
to disclose something to you.
Waiting for the universe to disclose something to you. He's talking about imposing meaning
in so many ways here.
He's listening and waiting for the moral truth of the universe to offer itself to you.
In the language of Simone Vey, you essentially become an antenna for God to communicate with.
Damn. This one. This is something.
Okay, wait for it.
We talk to God every day. But silly me, I can't seem to get the guy to return a text.
God doesn't talk to me. He apparently has better things to do.
Dispit.
I think there was a frequency that was being broadcast all the time that you just aren't
paying attention to.
Frequency that was being broadcast that you just aren't paying attention to.
How much does it... Oh God, just, you know, my ideas of maybe there's different worlds
out there or, you know, those moments where I do slip into that connection with the world
and it's like everything's completely different.
Continuation of what he's saying.
This is a metaphor. What if there was an experience available to you where you would feel a closer
connection to the universe, but you're just not open to it?
Fact is, you wouldn't even know if it was there or not if you weren't willing to be
open to it in the first place.
Another way to say that is that unless if you put in the work on yourself and on cultivating
your attention and prepared your mind in a way that allows it to be open to certain experiences,
you will never have any other experiences than the ones you do.
Oh wow. Like this is just... This is so heavily related to everything I've been thinking about
and everything I've been reading and, you know, skill building and the ways that skills
change the way that we see the world and what we attend to.
Skills change to what we attend to. What jumps out at us. What is salient.
The experience that we can have. And keep going.
This is the meaning of the title of her most famous book called "Waiting for God." And
as for how to practice attention...
I really want to read that book, but this next bit sounds very interesting.
As for what she thinks that moral truth may be and how we can further understand our place
alongside other people in this world, that'll have to wait till next episode.
But I guess I'll answer the guy at the...
Ah. Next episode it is then, I guess.
One last little bit here says at the end, it's almost based on Simoneve's life. It's
almost as if the universe discloses more to those who are willing to not keep the universe
at a safe distance.
How much does that drive with me and my need to protect myself and keep things at a distance?
And one last thing as well.
Yeah, one last thing. He says at right...
Sorry, it's something I said at the beginning of my...
I've just gotten home.
One thing I said at the beginning of my recording was that we always try to make things political.
We're always obsessed with politics and revolution. And those things are important.
This difference in attention and setting aside of the self and the ego and the spiritual
revolution and all that, working on oneself, building the skills to meet people where they
are, all that kind of thing. That's all of that.
It makes me a little bit more sympathetic to what Jordan Peterson says about before
you're going to talk about changing the world or changing the government or changing society,
first you have to change yourself. Clean up your damn room. It is a little bit like that
in some ways. I think it's kind of like we probably can't do neither. We can't just not
do politics at all. But I do kind of feel like maybe working on oneself is more important
in some ways. And trying to spread that, I guess. Trying to get more people on board
with working on themselves. And it also makes everything I'm trying to do at the moment
kind of is like trying to do this. All the things I'm... My mental health work I'm trying
to do is trying to learn how to... Part of it is gaining the skills to learn how to be
more empathetic and to listen to people, to be open to the world. And that's exactly what
she's... That's part of the skill setting aside the ego and being open and listening,
paying that kind of attention. That's kind of what I'm trying to do, trying to learn
how to do in my relationship and mental health journey. So my personal mental health journey
is directly related to all of this fascinating fucking philosophy stuff and the spiritual,
the hypnotherapy, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the
hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the
hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the
hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis,
the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the
hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the
hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the
hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the
hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the hypnosis, the
