I'm reading page 50-53 of René Brown's Daring Greatly.
It's talking about how, about trust and engagement in a relationship and betrayal, and talking
about how the big betrayals that happen like, you know, cheating or stealing money, all
that kind of stuff, those big betrayals tend to happen after another betrayal has been
occurring for a while, which is disengagement.
When we consistently are turning away from the other person, we're no longer investing
time and energy, and we're not caring as much, we don't seem to care as much, that is a form
of betrayal, according to her anyway, and it destroys trust in the relationship and
it makes the other person withdraw vulnerability, because it's hurting them and they don't want
to be hurt, and that's what happened in our relationship.
I can't speak to Holly's side of things, but I disengaged.
I was in the process of disengaging.
For like most of last year, I was disengaged, or disengaging.
Soon as we moved in together, I started disengaging, I think.
That's something I'm going to have to be very mindful of in future relationships.
The disengagement got a lot worse once I moved in, and part of the disengagement I think
was because the rel- honestly, the relationship was too much for me.
I don't think I was prepared for that relationship, because looking back at it, and knowing everything
I know now, the feelings I think I had in the beginning of the relationship were valid.
Holly was- it hurts to say it, but I think Holly was too much for me.
She poured so much of herself into me, which is not what I wanted.
It freaked me out, and I spent so much time hurting myself, because I felt like I didn't
love her enough.
I didn't love her as much as she loved me.
And even up until the end, she was saying that she spent so much of her time pouring
her life into me, and not living her own life, and blamed me for that.
And part of that is to do with me.
My inability to express my emotions did make that much more difficult for her, so she had
to- that interacted with her past, and meant that she had to- she spent a lot of time trying
to work out how I was feeling, and make things work.
Which isn't fair on her.
There's not much else I could have done.
I didn't have those skills.
I don't think it really could have gone any other way.
I did the best I could.
But it did really hurt her, and I'm really sorry for that.
But I don't think it's fair to blame me entirely, or even honestly all that much, because I
was not obsessed with her.
I knew that the entire time.
I knew there was a difference in the love that we both had for each other.
I knew it the whole fucking time.
Part of it was me having a hard time being more vulnerable, being vulnerable with her.
And she- and at the level of, you know, the way that she poured herself out.
I loved that about her.
I loved the way that she was vulnerable, so it wasn't- it's not a simple black and white
thing, but she- I think she went too far.
I think she trauma bonded.
She poured her life out into me.
She said, "You have a second heart now.
Here's mine."
And, I don't know, it's hard because it's not a simple "you shouldn't do that."
You know, how amazing- if we could both do that and be safe with each other, how amazing
would that be?
To be able to pour yourself into somebody else and know that that's safe?
But I wasn't ready for that.
I wasn't ready for her level of love.
I wasn't ready for her obsession, and honestly, I don't think I will ever be ready for somebody
to be obsessed with me.
You know, she- her own life ground to a halt.
Mine didn't.
That was a big difference between- that was a source of so much tension between us.
There was so much that I wanted to do, and I was capable of doing.
Whereas there was things Holly either didn't- like she just wanted to do- she just wanted
to spend time with me, or eventually she did want to do her own thing, but she just like
couldn't seem to bring herself to do it through the things she was struggling with, and also
because of our relationship and her, basically, obsession.
Whereas I was fucking struggling the whole time in this morass of trying to maintain
some boundaries in this relationship so that I could do the things that I am so passionate
about that I care about.
You know, I didn't want to spend all of my time with her.
I didn't want to talk to her all the time.
That's not- honestly, that's not the kind of relationship I want.
I am in some ways a very independent person, and there are things that matter so much to
me that I want to pour myself into.
And any love I have has to make room for that.
And that's what art was to Holly, and then she just abandoned it and poured herself into
me entirely instead.
I think that part of that is the way she was at in her life.
There was all sorts of complicated factors going on, but overall, that relationship was
too much for me.
Holly's love was too much for me, and I knew that from the beginning.
I spent so much time beating myself up when I knew from the beginning.
I wasn't- like, I didn't- a part of me was aware- had a growing awareness of that, like
something felt wrong, something felt off from the beginning.
I felt like I was struggling the entire relationship to maintain some distance.
Because yeah, I'm a bit of- I think I am a bit of an avoidant person, I struggle to be
vulnerable and that distance is important to me, but I'm probably never going to completely
throw myself into any relationship.
I'm never going to be- the person I love is never going to be my whole life, and it was
feeling like I was Holly's whole life.
And I didn't want that to be the case, and I don't think she wanted it to be the case
either.
And there were moments where I saw that it could be different, and we could have a relationship
that we both wanted where we had that.
We didn't pour ourselves into each other, we had some distance.
And we came together and shared those things, and that's what I want.
Now I want a close connection, I want an intimate bond, I want somebody I can be vulnerable
with and feel safe to be vulnerable with and share myself with, but I don't want to spend
all of my time with them, I don't want to think about them all the time.
I don't want them to consume my life.
There are other things in my life that are really important to me.
And any relationship that has- if I can't have- if that same thing is happening again
of the person wanting to be with me all the time, wanting to talk to me all the time,
giving up their life and the things they like and the things they want to do to be with
me, I'm not going to do it again.
I used to think- I would push away the thought that Holly is clingy.
She was, she was, whatever that means.
That's a massive oversimplification and just like a crass categorization.
But she was.
She was doing the classic- she told me she was doing the thing that clingy people do,
where she would desperately want to see me and talk to me all the time and I wouldn't
respond straight away.
So she would like time how long it took me to respond and then spend the same amount
of time responding.
Because she had- she was anxious.
She had an anxious attachment style.
She wanted the love.
I don't- there are elements where I am like that.
I'm- boundaries are- other things in my life are important to me and I don't want to lose
myself in someone else.
Interdependence.
Not merging.
Now that's diff- that's hard.
It's difficult.
That's really difficult.
That's a really difficult balance to go with.
But I need to trust my God in future.
I knew from the beginning I just- I couldn't trust it.
Of course I couldn't trust it because it was the first relationship I ever had and it felt
really good.
It felt really wonderful to be loved so much but it also scared me and it scared me for
good reason because it's not what I needed or wanted.
I didn't have the skills to trust that part of myself because I'd never had that experience
before.
But I know now that feeling- those feelings of tension and fear I was having, part of
it was fear of being vulnerable because it's something I struggle with.
But my feelings were legitimate.
That relationship was too much for me and I think that's why I disinteraged.
I couldn't- I just couldn't keep up.
I could not maintain that level of- it was a combination of I couldn't maintain the level
of like engagement that she needed from me because she wanted to fucking talk all the
time.
She just always wanted to seem to want to fucking talk to me and part of that was her
own like problems in her own life.
But I'm not a person who wants to spend all of my time with somebody else thinking about
somebody else talking to somebody else.
Maybe that- I will find somebody that is the case with but I don't think it ever will be.
I am a person who has- who actually despite struggling to maintain them because I let
those boundaries fall because I didn't know any better and I couldn't trust myself and
she was too- honestly she was pushing my boundaries down to get what she needed.
And my task over time will be to learn how to find this balance of maintaining myself
and my boundaries but also you know allowing that vulnerability because the vulnerability
does scare me.
I struggle with it.
Quite a lot.
And when other people are being vulnerable with me I love it so much.
And other people are pouring their hearts out for me.
I love it so much.
But there's a level of it that does scare me.
And I want to do it back so badly I just want to be fucking known.
But oh man this is really difficult.
I need to stand up for that.
I need to stand up for this is something I struggle with.
It's probably going to be something- it's probably going to be something I always struggle
with and you are never going to be my only priority.
Any relationship I am in you are never going to be my only priority.
There will be times when you are not my number one priority.
Honestly a lot of the time you are probably not going to be my number one priority.
Because there is other shit in my life that I care about.
It will always be important.
I want to share with you.
I want to share those things with you.
And I want you to have things that you want that you want to share with me that we can
come together and share.
And then support each other through and love each other for.
But I am never going to pour myself entirely into just into you and nothing else.
Like Holly kind of did with me.
And the other part of why I disengaged.
Well actually it's kind of the same thing at root.
That because of that drive, that desire, that almost obsessive nature I have.
I struggle so much to just keep- you know what I keep saying I struggle to keep up with
modern life.
That's what I mean.
It's because I'm not happy or content to just kind of waft along the shit I really care
about that I want to pour myself into.
And I hold myself back from all the time.
I'm constantly holding myself back from pouring myself into these things.
Because I know if I do my life will just not- life will disappear but you know I've done
it before in ways.
And I have to be really careful because it kind of eats my life.
And I'm really actually really tired.
It really wears me out trying to maintain that balance of like holding myself back from
my obsessions.
But because of those things and because of you know my constantly going thoughts and
I know other things that go on and probably my worries about things and how much I'm thinking
about things and all that kind of stuff.
It's- I get- I really struggle to keep- and my internalised feelings of shame and guilt
about things you know.
Feeling bad about not getting back to people means that I don't get back to people which
makes it worse.
All that kind of thing.
I spend- I get- I just- I struggle.
I really struggle to keep up.
To find- I struggle so much to find the- to find balance in my life between the things
I have to do, things I desperately want to do, things I need to do.
And all the multiple different of each of those.
And my feelings.
And my emotions.
My multiple wants and needs.
My multiple obsessions that keep bouncing around.
I feel- I feel like a fucking mess.
I feel like I'm just constantly pulled in so many different directions.
That I kind of like end up not really moving anywhere.
Because every time I move in one direction I then bounce back the other.
And the net result is I kind of stay in the same place.
In some ways maybe incrementally slide forwards.
You know that's why- I think that's part of why I struggle to do all these habits.
You know these things I want to do.
All these expectations I have of myself.
Things- Ways I want my life to be.
Things I want to do.
Meditate.
Get to sleep on time.
I put so much pressure on myself to do all of those things.
You know they're all- they're at the back of my mind all the time.
You know it's why I get so stressed about sleep and sleep with my- around my- you know
sleep times around my friends and get frustrated with them for not listening to me.
And I'm a bit of a mess.
Chaotic fucking mess being pulled in all these different directions.
And that makes it really difficult to be in a relationship to be honest.
Because it's another thing that's pulling me- a big thing that's pulling me in another
different direction.
And you know I feel overwhelmed even without being in a relationship.
My obsessions and needs and feelings overwhelm me quite often.
And that's where that need for time and space to myself comes from.
Because I need- I like- I care- I'm obsessed with other things and I'm bouncing all these
different directions and I need space for that.
I need space to bounce.
I need space to be obsessed.
I need time.
Which makes me pull away from- that's why I need to put up- try to put up those boundaries
and have time and space to myself.
And that's why I disengage from Holly because I constantly felt like she was trying to like-
I constantly felt like she was trying to pull me in and I was trying to pull myself away.
I couldn't- I couldn't deal with that.
I didn't- I didn't want to hurt her.
I didn't want her to feel bad about it.
I didn't want to feel bad about it.
Now I- what I wanted to be able to pour myself into her, it's like I wanted to be able to
do something I knew I couldn't.
Now I often would feel frustrated with her or like lack of empathy and I didn't- like
I would actively think- be thinking and feeling "why am I feeling like this?
Why am I thinking this?
I want to be able to feel for you, to go engage with you but I just can't.
I get so guilty.
I feel so shitty.
I spent so much time feeling like shit about the way I was feeling.
That was so hard.
So fucking hard.
And neither of us did anything wrong.
We just- we were both two fucking very damaged people trying as best as we could to love
and be loved.
Trying to sort through all of our problems.
Get the things that we needed, have them in each other.
You know, we showed each other so much kindness and we wanted to maintain that.
We wanted that kindness.
It was fucking addictive.
Wanted that kindness and love that we showed each other.
Because it was the first either of us had really ever had to be honest.
But really, we couldn't give each other what we needed.
That's the crux of it.
And all of this hurts but it's also like- reading in this about the disengagement stuff
in this book hurts while I'm reading it but talking about it, I have a bit of self-compassion.
And I have compassion for her too.
I was really hurt and angry the other day and I'm still a bit hurt and angry but she
was doing the best she could.
She had so- she had so much pain and so much baggage and so much shit to deal with.
She was doing the absolute best she could by me and by herself.
That's all we can ask of anyone.
Life is so fucking hard and complicated.
Being human is so hard and complicated.
Love is so hard and complicated.
You can't know these things while you're in it.
You have to make the mistake, fuck the relationship up and break and end the relationship to learn
these- to be able to really reflect on these things.
I couldn't face most of what I'm talking about now while I was with her.
I had inklings of all of these things.
They were brewing right down in my guts right from the beginning.
I knew it.
There was a part of- like it was a small part of me right down deep in my fucking core that
knew this was not what I needed.
It was more than I could take.
It was more than I wanted.
I was not going to get my needs met and not be able to keep up with hers.
That- I just- it was my first relationship.
I didn't know what I could- I didn't know otherwise.
I didn't know what a relationship was supposed to be or what- like I had no idea what a relationship
could be.
So it was like I guess this is what a relationship is.
And it was wonderful in so many ways.
But it was too much.
And that burnt me out.
And it burnt her out too I think.
I don't think either of us had the space for that relationship in our lives.
Holly had so much other shit that she needed to do and think about and keep- you know that's
Melbourne and sorting out all of her family problems and her trauma and all of that.
How it was all of that was really important and shh- our relationship kind of got in the
way of that.
She poured herself into that.
And it made it so much harder for her to do all of those things.
And what she needs is not me.
What she needs is to not be with me and she needs to- you know what I was talking about
the whole time, go to Melbourne.
I want this for you so much.
I want you to have that experience because it's what you need.
You need it so badly.
And maybe we would have been able to make things work at some point if we'd met each
other at a different time but we didn't.
And that's probably never gonna happen again.
That chance is probably gone.
Now we've both reflected.
Honestly those parts of those things are probably never gonna change.
And her love will probably always be a little bit too much for me and my love will probably
always never be quite enough for her.
The ways that I love and the ways that she loves.
I will probably always need more space than she can give me.
I think she will probably always need more connection than I can give her.
Maybe I don't know.
It doesn't really matter.
There's no point really thinking about it anymore.
I mean I'm gonna think about it anyway because I loved her and I still love her and there's
a part of me that still wants to be with her and hopes that one day we can maybe reconnect.
Years from now we can try again after we've both grown because there were nuggets, there
were glimpses all the time, these little glimpses of such a perfect fucking relationship.
Exact relationship that I want that I'm now learning that's what I want out of a relationship.
I don't want kids and a white picket fence and a marriage and sitting in a house grinding
ourselves down working full time just doing whatever shitty job.
I want somebody who's passionate and cares about something and does that thing and I
care about, I want to care about and want to do things and pour myself into those and I
want a Simone de Beauvoir to my Sartre.
I want somebody who will sit next to me every day and write.
That's what I want.
Who will pour themselves into other things and share those with each other and share
things with each other.
And I want somebody who is, I want to be with somebody who has, who recognise, who has either
grown out of or never bought into the bullshit we get around relationships and romance and
love.
I don't want somebody who just wants six kids and wants the perfect wedding and to settle
down somewhere.
Believes in love, love for a lover.
I want somebody who is in the gritty realness of love.
That no one person is ever going to be enough for anyone.
Different people will bring out different sides of us.
You know?
I want somebody who is aware of those things.
Who doesn't make, you know I don't, I'm not going well, I probably will, but I don't want
to feel shitty again about not living up to somebody else's expectations of love.
That's what I want.
I want somebody who is aware of the reality of society, societally fucking propagandaised
conceptions, unrealistic conceptions of love.
Because in some ways that's what Holly's was to begin with.
It grew over time to become less like that.
But in the beginning, she you know within the first six months she basically proposed
to me.
Is it feeling like I'm too much?
Yes, that's fair, but maybe in some ways you are too much.
A lot of people might struggle with that.
I guess you just got to try and find somebody who wants it just as much as you do.
I don't know.
This has been good.
This has been useful.
And I'm starting to be able to look at things of Holly's and think about Holly and not curl
into a ball and cry.
It's still like a little stab in my heart.
But I think this is the dawning, especially after the other day, of saying really finally
saying goodbye and starting to process my anger.
This is really the beginning of starting to be able to move on, I think.
This weekend, right now today, is my first day of really starting to move on, I think.
Which means it's time to start focusing on me and what I need and what I want.
So what do I want?
What do I want to do?
What do I want to do with my time today?
It's time to stop holding myself back from things.
What does that look like?
I think part of why I have been struggling to work out what to do with myself on top
of the processing feelings and having spent all my time with my weekends with Holly is
this idea of rest.
I want to rest, but I don't really know what that looks like to me.
So it's other than sleeping in and reading a book.
But then when it comes to it, I don't actually want to really want to do that.
I do enjoy it, but then I have this feeling it pushes me on.
It's probably because I want to pour myself into something.
I have all these other little boundaries around it, like I don't want to be on the computer
all day and I don't want to be at home all day, but also I do, and also I want to get
to sleep, and I want to have a nap at two o'clock.
What do you want to do with your time, Michael?
What matters to you?
Is it rest?
Is rest what matters to you?
It is a bit, but it's not everything, and what does that look like, and how much rest
is enough?
Do I need to spend the whole weekend doing nothing?
I don't enjoy that either.
What does rest look like?
If you stop holding onto things that you feel like you need to do, if you give yourself
one day, Sunday is the day that you just do whatever the thing is that you want to do,
what do you really want to do?
I told myself I want to come out and sit out here and read my books and make progress on
the two books I'm reading.
Is that really what I want to do?
Because I'm not doing it.
I'm avoiding doing this instead.
What do I really want to do?
If I go sit out here and play games, I don't really enjoy that.
That's not what I want to do either.
The whole time I'm feeling like there's something else I want to do.
There's all these, you know, I've got this big list of to-dos and tasks that are preying
on my mind that I feel like I need to go do, but I specifically don't want to spend my
Sundays doing that.
That's what tomorrow is for.
Today is my day for just doing whatever I want to do.
What is that?
So if I put aside everything, if I put aside any expectations, what do I want to do?
I want to work on my board game?
Do I want to express my philosophy ideas?
Do I want to read about the degree I want to do?
Do I want to go for a walk?
Do I want to go for a bike ride?
What do I want to do?
I want to do something.
I want to be active.
I want to sit and read and consume.
I want to be active.
I want to produce.
I want to express myself.
I want to be active.
[Sigh]
