high level summary of some of the other messages I've received is, including that last one
I guess, so there's the sex and intimacy related stuff, and you know that I should be having
sex and, sex should be sex and intimacy and a girlfriend's relationship should be easy,
should be something I'm participating in, going out and having, getting drunk and doing
drugs and going to parties and all those sorts of things. Something I should be doing, which
I never really wanted to do all that much and felt scared of and struggled with, there
was, there's the messages of incompetence, where people would take things away from me.
People often, particularly my father, would not let me finish doing things, or they, you
know, mum would ask me, "Hey, have you brushed your hair? Have you got your keys? Have you
sprayed yourself?" etc. etc. when you leave, when every time I left the house, even after
high school. Yeah, that kind of stuff. There's, you know, dad taking stuff off me and feeling
proud, like, you know, never really playing sport and watching everybody else play sport
and feel like that's what I'm supposed to do, but never really wanting to and being
intimidated by it and a couple times being made fun of for not playing sport, and the
kind of, in combination with that, and people taking things off of me and feeling like I
don't have common sense. That's something I can often remember feeling and thinking,
I don't, I struggle with common sense. I often seem to end up in situations where I just,
like, didn't know what to do and what I often end up doing things that would be, like, the
wrong thing, particularly, you know, like, a noodle box, like, trying to get through
the fucking, like, walking out to dump the, there was a bin and I dumped stuff out the
back and the door closing behind me and it locking and it not being able to get back
in and then being like, "Oh, fuck, I don't know what to do," and then, like, walking
back through the front, like, if I walk through the front, Peru is going to think I'm an idiot,
and then it's kind of going through the front anyway and I think somebody pulled me up on
it. Just feeling, often feeling, lack of confidence and, you know, and people telling me, "You
need more initiative, you need to do more stuff yourself," you know, some people telling
me in my adult life that I've been coddled, I'm bubble wrapped, and particularly with
manual physical things, really struggling with that, people taking those things off of me,
never really having the chance to develop those things, being intimidated by those things,
being intimidated by the big burly fucking manly men, and, you know, kind of, like, not
really wanting any part of that, you know, and not really ever wanting to play sports
or explore my physicality because of those things, you know, so I guess the message is
there, I should be physical, but I'm not, and I'm incompetent and bubble wrapped and,
yeah, not quite sure what the exact messages are there, and then there's, what else, what
else was there? There was, um, mum and her extreme fucking anxiety and, like, helicopter
parenting where she would, you know, she'd even up the toilet, like, a couple years ago
she would text me, she'd ask me, she'd call me and text me and freak out if I didn't call
or text her back, um, you know, she'd want to know everywhere, like, any time I was going
somewhere she'd want to know where I was going, when I was going to be back, um, you
know, she wanted me to text me when I got places so she knew, she'd know I'd gotten
there and not died in a car crash in the way, um, so I guess those messages were, like,
I don't know, things are unsafe, um, maybe, uh, times when mum would express emotions,
mum would get, like, stressed out, really stressed out or scared or anxious or angry,
often not as much angry, often usually more scared or anxious and she'd, like, freak out
and dad would get really frustrated and angry at her and basically yell at her for doing
what she was doing, um, which I think in some ways taught me, it made me frustrated at mum
and I think it also made me, it kind of taught me that expressing feelings like that maybe
isn't okay, um, I don't know where but I definitely picked up the message that, you know, crying
is not okay to cry and it's not that I feel bad about crying, it's just, like, I don't,
I as a fact think, I'm not sure if I ever thought crying was bad but I always acted
as if it wasn't, I shouldn't and other people see me, like, I barely cried from, child from,
like, my teenage years up until, you know, probably when I met Holly, there was only
a couple of times I cried in my adult life and every time, like, the one or two times
I cried around other people I, like, left so people couldn't see me cry. Um, I've never
really felt like I can talk to dad about emotional things so I guess I, that's kind of like a
message of, um, unemotional, unemotionality, you know, plus all the messages one receives
in the media about men being stoic and dealing with their emotions themselves when you're
not dealing with, just going, not having emotions, pushing that shit down, don't cry, etc. etc.
Um, anything, what else, is there anything else? That's just some of the stuff that really
jumps out at me. Um, and I definitely, I definitely kind of felt like, did I feel like my needs
weren't important? I definitely felt like my mother's needs because she was quite distressed
quite a lot and quite emotional and, you know, we'd get quite angry, particularly at Jamie,
she never did as much as me but she'd fucking explode at Jamie, um, and she'd get, with
me, she'd get very angry with Jamie and she'd get very scared with me. I always kind of
learnt that her needs around that were very important. I never felt okay to tell her,
"No, I'm not gonna fucking text you." Like, it wasn't until, like, literally last year
that I could tell her that, like, I'd, I'd need to stop doing this. And I still struggled
to talk to them about emotional stuff, mum less so, but, um, yeah.
