Okay, it is 7.18am on Thursday the 18th of May.
This is like 10 minutes from work.
This is my Siva for the day, but it won't be very long because I'm 10 minutes from work.
I wasn't doing one, I was just kind of sitting with my thoughts, but my thoughts were getting
overwhelming so I thought it was probably better to talk them out, but also I probably
need to actually examine what it is that I'm feeling, what thoughts, it's very much thoughts
and thoughts in external circumstances.
I'm feeling stressed, overwhelmed, somewhere I'm feeling stressed and overwhelmed, kind
of hopeless, maybe a little bit of mild despair, frustration and anger at unfairness I guess.
And that's like really high level unfairness of just modern life I guess.
And I'm feeling really tired and I have a stress ball in my chest.
So I'm thinking, I'm thinking about, I'm feeling all these competing pressures I guess, which
is kind of what was happening last year, but it's the competing pressures of full time
work and the amount of time that that takes up of my life and how that kind of like, I
don't know, I just don't like it, I don't react well to it, I don't, I think it maybe
just goes against my values.
I'm really sure, but it's something that I continue to struggle with all the time and
I know everybody struggles with it a bit probably.
And I'm so fucking tired.
It's, and the stress and overwhelm is making it hard to actually sort out my thoughts.
The stress and overwhelm and the tiredness are making it hard to want to do this and
hard to actually like talk and hard to sort out what my thoughts are.
Yeah.
Stress ball is quite large, I think I'm quite stressed.
It's like I desperately need more sleep and I really want to be able to get to bed earlier
so I can actually get enough sleep every night because not getting enough sleep every night
is really making this fucking difficult.
This being work and also kind of life.
I'm just fucking, like every work night I don't get enough sleep and I'm just fucking
tired all the time.
It's making it very difficult to do my job and it's making it very difficult to do much
of anything.
On my weekends all I want to do is fucking sleep and rest.
So yeah, I don't know if I can do this this morning.
I'm too stressed and too tired and I have this...
It's like hard to talk past the stress ball in my chest.
It makes it hard to breathe properly and it also makes it...
It's like talking, it's like a lump in my throat and my chest that makes it difficult.
It's like a rock in there that it's actually difficult to talk past.
Very high level summary so I can shut up.
Trying to balance the amount of time I get after work with the amount of sleep I need
and the amount of...
And the things I want to do with my life because work is not what I want to be fucking doing
with my life.
It's not what I care about or am passionate about.
It's just a thing that I'm doing so I don't fucking starve to death and also now so I
can meet some other financial goals because I feel other pressures from other parts of
my life to meet those financial goals like starting to save up and grow my wealth and
all that kind of stuff.
Which is probably in some ways unexamined values, multiple competing values and unexamined
values.
So also I seem to be a person who struggles to get to sleep because my brain is often
going a lot.
There have been times where I've been able to get around.
I kind of bring that back down a bit but at the moment it's taking me like an hour and
a half to fall asleep every night.
Part of that I think is probably excitement around the things I'm doing overnight and
also just anxiety around the sleep.
I feel like to get to sleep on time I have to fucking go to bed at like 8.30 and stop
doing stuff at like 8 which means I get about an hour to do stuff overnight which stresses
me out and then makes it hard to get to sleep.
So yesterday I was trying to spend time that night looking into ... I'm sick of my life
and I'm starting to get sick of my job.
I'm starting to get sick of spending most of my days and time and all my mental energy
on shit that I just don't fucking care about at all.
I do not care about this job beyond its ability to pay me.
Basically I just don't give a fuck.
So I was starting to think look if I have to do something all day every day that's going
to wear me down I might as well do something that's actually something I want to do which
is the problem Holly was struggling with.
Do something I actually want to do.
Do something I'm passionate about and care about which is pretty much philosophy.
So how do I do that and what does that look like?
So then I started looking at study and that fucking freaked me out and stressed me out
because it's like ... I started looking at all of the philosophy degrees in Australia
and they're all pretty shit to be honest.
None of them are all that interesting.
They're all ... I have to do subjects that I don't really care about.
And then I found at the University of Edinburgh a master's of mind, body and embodied cognition.
Mind, brain and embodied cognition which sounds fucking amazing.
It's in Edinburgh, it's our masters and I think I don't know if I'd be able to do it just
yet.
I might have to finish my honours but if I had honours in philosophy or psychology I
would be able to finish my honours.
I'd be able to do it.
It costs a bit but if I lived in the UK in Scotland for three years I might be able to
do it for free and I could potentially get a loan to reduce it and help my living costs.
So that looks really cool.
That means I would probably have to go back to uni which I don't really want to do and
it also means I'd have to probably finish my honours degree which I don't really want
to do.
So it's like all my options are not things I really want to do all that much at the moment.
At the start of this year I was really excited for this year because I was finally fucking
happy to just do something for a bit and make some money and then it lasted all of a couple
of two or three months and now I'm fucking sick of it.
Because I was enjoying the job, the job was good for a bit and also I was working four
days a week.
Four days a week was a big part.
Like four days a week is really fucking good.
Full time is bullshit.
I hate it.
I hate everything about it.
There's not enough fucking time to live.
So yeah.
That's that.
I'm about to drive into work so I probably have to stop but I hate work.
