It is 6.57 on Thursday the 25th of May. This is my SEVA for the day.
I'm on my way to work. Running quite late today. I didn't leave until 6.55.
So I have to take the toll road to get there on time today.
I was taking things a bit slow this morning and went to the toilet and all that kind of stuff.
Anyway, my SEVA. It's a continuation of last night.
But I... I...
Yeah, so the situation is that last night, Holly and I had a conversation, probably our last conversation for quite a while.
And basically she said no to us trying again at some point because she had tried, asked several times already.
She had asked several times already to try and make it work us now rather than trying again later.
She asked, tried to say, "Hey, we could do more casual or long distance or all sorts of different things," which was her not wanting to let go, I think.
And I said no every time. And she said, "When you try all these different things and you keep getting no, that means no. And I'm not going to try again, basically."
And also she said, "Your struggle with your emotions and your inability to express yourself and stuff really hurt me because I had to do all this emotional work around you."
You know, I had to... I bent... this is her talking. I bent myself into... you know, I was trying to constantly dance around you and talk to you the right way in discussions and...
Yeah. Talk to you the right way in discussions and... not upset you and, you know, I thought of... yeah, I spent all my time trying not to upset you rather than doing things for myself.
And that hurt me and I don't want to be hurt like that again.
Yeah, and I'm angry. I'm angry, I'm hurt, I'm upset, I'm sad. I'm...
What else am I?
I'm...
I'm disappointed. I'm disappointed in her, in Holly, and I'm disappointed in the fact that...
It turns out I was still basically holding onto hope that we might be able to try again at some point.
I wasn't really sure I was, but clearly I was. I was basically thinking about it like we're gonna break up for now and deal with work on ourselves and then we'll try again in a bit.
I think I was deep down... yeah, I was... I was basically... that's how I was operating.
And I was... in some ways, in some ways, I was saying, you know, we'll see what happens, but I think that was what I was hoping for.
And this has kind of dashed those hopes.
And she rejected me, basically.
And she realised that I was rejecting her, but... yeah.
I don't know, where's this going?
And I think more than anything I am upset and hurt and angry.
I think I'm still... I think it sounds like, to me, like both of us, based on what she's saying and on interpreting my own experience, both of us were really hurt.
Neither of us had our needs met. Both of us were trying to dance around each other and putting so much effort into trying to make things work and be loved and all that kind of thing.
I think in some ways we weren't really being ourselves in some ways.
At times we were able to be, and I think maybe as time went on we became more able to be. In the beginning of the relationship, I don't think we were being ourselves at all.
And it was wonderful. And there were parts where we were being ourselves. I was being myself in some ways, and that's part of why I loved the relationship because I loved her because I felt able to be me own.
She was the only person I'd ever been around who I felt like I could express my wonder. And that was really important to me. I felt seen.
But particularly in the beginning of the relationship, she was obsessed. She spent the first two years of our relationship pressuring me into getting fucking married.
And then had the fucking audacity at the end to say that wasn't ever what I wanted. Despite the fact that she basically tried to propose to me within the first six months.
And she spent all of her fucking time, she was obsessed, and I wasn't. I loved her. I loved her deeply. But I think that's part of where my discomfort around the feelings came from because I constantly felt like I didn't love her enough or I didn't love her as much as she loved me.
And that's probably because I wasn't obsessed. You know, I was trying to maintain a bit of distance at the beginning of the relationship and she constantly was pushing me past that.
I was trying to put up boundaries and she just fucking ignored them basically. And I felt bad about that all the fucking time. I wasted, maybe not wasted, but I spent so much fucking time in the first year of our relationship feeling shitty and guilty and bad because I felt like she was the only person.
She was my model of love. She was the only love I'd ever really experienced. And she was obsessed. She has said it herself. And reflecting back, that's exactly what happened. She was fucking obsessed with me. And I was not.
I was not obsessed with her. I loved her. And that love built more and more with time. But I found us pretty fucking overwhelming pretty much from the beginning. I found her overwhelming.
You know, I would be trying to stand to say no, look sorry, I need to get my uni work done. And say sorry, I need to leave or I can't hang out too much. I need fucking time to do my uni work.
And she just, you know, she'd get upset and she'd... it felt like sometimes like she was, she wasn't trying to, but honestly sometimes I felt guilted into spending time with her.
And it was something I would have struggled with regardless, but I think that first year made it much more difficult for me. You know, I spent so much fucking time trying to not hurt her, to do the right thing, to give her what she needed.
And I, honestly, I let my fucking boundary, I did not stand up for my boundaries, partly because I struggled with it, but now that I'm looking back, honestly, I was probably better at that to begin with.
And over the course of that relationship I found it more difficult, at least the first year and a half maybe.
She basically told me that the way that my needs and my feelings around time and relationships were wrong. She basically told me, "What you want is not a relationship."
Because it wasn't what she wanted and what she needed. And then didn't fucking... she did that twice and then didn't... just didn't remember that at all.
And I was... I could never fucking bring myself to tell her the truth about things because I didn't want to hurt her. And she said, "Oh, I'm sorry, I hope too much of that wasn't me making you feel like your needs were wrong."
And guess what? Actually, it was you. And it would have happened, again, it would have happened regardless. I would have... I've discovered that I kind of... well, actually, now I probably need to work out how much of that was actually me and how much of that was the relationship.
But... yeah, a bunch of that was Holly. A bunch of the reason I struggled with that was because of her and the ways that she reacted when I tried to fucking...
You know, she spent the first year of our relationship basically trying to push past my boundaries. No wonder I fucking struggled with them. She fucking ignored them. I tried to stand up for them.
I tried to say, "No, look, sorry. I have shit I need to do." And she would just constantly want to fucking spend time and talk and... and I would... I would let her have her way.
Because I loved her and I wanted to spend time with her. I just didn't want to do it as much as she did. And she was fucking obsessed. And I felt like I was the fucking bad guy.
Because I didn't want to spend as much time with her. I felt like I was wrong. Like my love... I didn't love her the right way or love her enough.
I'm really, actually really fucking pissed off.
I knew some of this throughout that time a little bit. I just couldn't... I couldn't face it. I couldn't... I couldn't face anger towards her or like her having done something wrong.
I couldn't... because I was terrified of... I think I was terrified of losing her love. I was terrified of hurting her.
So I just couldn't stand up for those things. But... and now... now that we're at this point where, you know, that's it.
We're not going to have our relationship again basically. And honestly, thinking about it, it's probably for the best.
We did grow, both grow, and in the last maybe year of our relationship, a lot of the... some of these problems kind of went away.
We grew past them, but I am realising just how many problems there were in that relationship.
And then actually it probably wasn't really that healthy of a relationship in a bunch of ways.
Which is painful. But, you know, I knew these things when I talked to her over the last, you know, two months since breaking up.
And even then, after we broke up, I couldn't bring myself to really express this and say, "This is how you hurt me. This is the ways you fucked up."
Because I didn't want to hurt her. But... and look, it's still... I still don't need... I don't need to... I feel like I want to, obviously.
I want to be like, "Fuck you. You think you hurt me. Here's all the ways you fucked up and hurt me continuously for our... like at least for our entire relationship, particularly the fucking beginning."
You pushed me past my boundaries and then had the fucking gall to complain when I had fucking problems with my boundaries.
When you basically told me my fucking needs were wrong. Fuck you.
And it's like now we've gotten to this point where we're not going to try again and we're breaking contact.
We're just not going to talk for quite a while if, honestly, maybe we will never talk again.
I don't know. Maybe that's... maybe we actually won't have a relationship... a friendship even. I'm not sure.
It sounds like basically we'll... things are up in the air and we're just... we're not going to talk for a while.
We're going to go no contact for a decent length of time and try and move on in our lives.
And now we've got to that point, it's like I can finally fucking accept some of this stuff and express it to myself.
Fuck you.
And of course, this is just me... I am in anger at the moment because I've just been rejected and I've just finally realised how much I was hurt.
Which makes it really hard to accept and hear her hurt, which is kind of what was happening the entire last year.
But this... what I'm realising now is probably underneath all of this stuff as well.
But you know, a couple weeks time I will probably be like... I will have processed some of this and be okay with things and be like,
"Look, if we want to try it... if we want to have a friendship at some point, yeah."
But right now I am fucking angry. I'm really fucking angry.
And I wish I could have been this angry earlier.
I want her to know. Which I'm not going to because there's no point.
It will probably ruin any chance we have... well, to have a friendship maybe we need to have these conversations.
But I'm tired of having those conversations. There's no point. There's so much shit that we would have to deal with on both sides.
But I'm really fucking angry.
And her saying... you know, all the ways that I... just being her... all the ways I contorted myself around you and tried to please you and did all this stuff,
or you did all this emotional work... all I can feel is, at the moment, is anger and pain.
Because it's like, well, how about all the fucking ways that I was doing the same fucking thing?
That you just seem to forget.
Oh, I put in so much fucking work into that goddamn relationship.
To making her... me trying to make things okay.
I spent so much fucking time listening to her bitch about her fucking family.
When she had no... she didn't talk to... fucking... and she spent two years not getting a therapist and talking to me about all the fucking problems.
Endlessly, every time we fucking left her family.
And I tried again and again and again to fucking listen. I could have done better.
And I have hurt her. I did hurt her. And that's not fair.
But I can't... I am too fucking... I have way too much fucking pain and anger at the moment.
And have for a while, and too much hurt, to care.
Well, not that I don't care, but to be able to... I feel that. All I can feel is my own anger and hurt at the moment.
And it probably will be quite a while.
So, in conclusion, I love you, Holly, but fuck you.
It's like, now we've gotten to this point. Maybe I can... it feels like maybe I can... this is what I wasn't doing.
I was most... I was kind of putting my toe into all of this, into the ways that the relationship wasn't good, and the ways in which she hurt me, and all that kind of thing.
The ways in which she fucked up.
I spent a fair amount of time thinking about the ways in which I fucked up.
The mistakes I made, the ways I hurt her.
And being sad about things ending. And I dipped my toe very slightly.
But I didn't spend a lot of time over the last two months thinking, you know, really coming to terms with the ways in which I was hurt.
That the social relationship wasn't good for me.
And now maybe I can actually fucking do that and start to really sit with and sink into and realize the ways that...
That it was a good idea that we needed to end that relationship, and we probably shouldn't try again.
Fucking, finally, stand up for myself. Back myself.
And rather than fucking bending myself around other people so that I don't hurt them, and spending all this fucking time...
Maybe just be fucking slightly selfish for once. Intentionally at least.
And think about the ways in which I was hurt and I was affected. And fucking stand up for myself.
Because she fucked up. She hurt me so much. So many fucking times.
And I never... I never processed any of that. I just tried to make things work.
Tried not to hurt her. Tried not to get angry at her.
Fuck that. That's what she's doing at the moment, I think. And that's good.
She needs to do that too because she does the same thing in a bunch of ways.
We both kind of did the same shit. It's time for me to fucking stand up for myself.
It's time for me to stand up for myself and back myself instead of constantly trying to fucking...
Just thinking about other people all the fucking time. Constantly dancing around everyone.
Trying not to hurt everyone. Trying to do the right thing. Trying to make everybody like me.
I'm fucking tired of it. It's time to just fucking be me.
As that means I need all the fucking time to myself, so be it.
There's shit I care about and I'm passionate about and I want to do that shit.
And I'm not going to be fucking told again, "That's wrong."
And even for the last two months... I keep saying this at the end and keep going, but...
Even for the last two months, I haven't been able to stand up for the fact that...
No, honestly, I haven't really wanted to fucking talk. I probably would have preferred to just...
There was definitely parts of me that did want to, but on the whole, I was not comfortable with talking.
I pretty much just want... Honestly, I think I probably wanted to just go no contact.
And again, part of it was definitely...
Part of it was definitely not wanting to give up on us entirely and all that.
All that, but a lot of it was not wanting to hurt her.
And I've talked to her all these times and not wanted to.
I need to start fucking standing up for myself.
Because those are my needs.
And it doesn't fucking matter what other people think.
If I spend my life trying to ignore those things to make other people okay...
I'm going to fucking hate my life. I'm never going to have a good relationship.
I need to stand up for the things that I need.
And if that means I need a lot of fucking time to myself, then so be it.
That's what I need.
I spent basically our entire relationship...
Avoiding and ignoring my own needs and struggling so much because of it.
And honestly, some of that I took out on her.
I got... What's the word?
I resented her.
Part of that is because she made it fucking difficult for me.
She told me I was fucking wrong.
Um...
But, you know, I spent so much time...
So many times I knew what I wanted and I just didn't fucking say.
Because I wasn't okay with it. I felt like I was wrong.
I was wrong for having those fucking needs.
Fuck that.
Like I knew that I didn't want to get married any fucking time soon if ever.
Because I knew, I obviously fucking knew that this relationship was not right in some ways.
That we needed to do some fucking work.
And she just pressured me, fucking not constantly, but several, quite a few times to get married.
And that's me not that I didn't stand up for my needs.
What the hell?
It's fucking it. From now on, obviously it's not going to fucking change overnight.
I am habitually a people pleaser.
It will take time, like that lady was talking about the other day on the Money podcast.
I have to start from the lowest level and work my way up and build the skills.
But fuck this. From now on, I am...
I am...
It's going to try and accept my needs.
My needs are what fucking matter to me for now.
And it's time to start fucking working on accepting that and working on it.
And not letting other fucking people trample over me.
People, Holly, getting obsessed with me and pushing me into marriage and spending all this fucking time with her.
I'm so much fucking stressed during my uni time because of her, honestly.
Yes, that is the truth. Because of Holly.
She put that fucking stress on me.
She just did not listen. She just pushed me to fucking...
Because of her obsession, because I was nice to her.
Because she'd never been shown kindness before and I showed her some kindness.
She became obsessed with me and then...
I didn't want to hurt her.
So I didn't stand up for my need for space and time to do my fucking uni work.
[car engine starts]
[car engine starts]
Wait, really? There's no fucking light?
Oh shit. Because I don't actually want to be here. Fuck.
Whoops.
There's no light today.
[car engine starts]
No, obviously the light makes the rest of the world go dark.
[car engine starts]
[car engine starts]
[car engine starts]
[car engine starts]
[car engine starts]
[car engine starts]
[car engine starts]
[car engine starts]
[car engine starts]
[car engine starts]
[car engine starts]
[car engine starts]
[car engine starts]
[car engine starts]
It's time for both of us to focus on ourselves.
I'm kind of repeating myself constantly here, but it...
I think this is just about the first time I've ever actually, like, given into my anger and lent into it
and actually let out myself to feel it and...
...feel justified and not, like, pussy-footed around it, be like, "Oh no, Ashley, they didn't do anything wrong."
They're like, "No. They hurt me. They have done something. They have crushed my needs.
And it's time to accept that and stand up for that and stand up for myself. They hurt me.
And I'm allowed to fucking be angry. And that's not... It's allowed for... That's okay.
It's okay for that to not be okay, what they have done.
And I don't have to fucking spend all my time worrying about hurting them.
I can actually just be fucking angry.
Maybe if I'd done that more throughout our relationship, things would have worked a bit better.
Because I could have actually expressed my anger and the ways in which she was hurting me,
I could have either made them stop or we could have realised a lot earlier that things weren't working.
I'm not saying I regret the time we spent, any of, like, that three years.
I don't regret it at all. But if I had stood up for myself, I probably would have been hurt...
Both of us probably would have been hurt less.
That's important. It's important. It's okay to stand up... to be angry and stand up for yourself,
even if it upsets other people, it hurts other people because otherwise nothing will let you.
You can't squash yourself to fit other people.
That doesn't work for either of you.
I need to stand up for myself in the future, say what I actually need, express my anger,
tell them when I've been hurt, so that they can either not react well, and if they keep doing that,
I know that this isn't a relationship that's going to work for me, or they can take it on board and
apologise, accept it, and we can resolve it together and move on.
Because it does feel good when, you know, resolving it builds connection and love and trust.
And not doing that squashes the opportunity for those things.
