Okay, it is 4.51pm on Wednesday the 24th of May. This is my SEVA for the day. I'm driving
home from work. A little bit to talk about today. I've been feeling quite, I haven't
actually talked about it at all yet, which I probably should have. I should have probably
talked about it when I was in it. But I have been feeling quite, like really stressed at
work and quite fed up and I've been very close to quitting quite a few times. Part of it
is that there's just like a ridiculous amount of work. Like I have been struggling to keep
up for months and we're getting more and more work and we're losing people. People are quitting
or getting sick or getting sent out to places for weeks on end. So yeah, I'm getting pretty
burnt out and I've been thinking about quitting constantly and really not enjoying work and
just basically honestly been dreading it. And part of that has actually been because
of Bree. It's been feeling like Bree has been breathing down my fucking... Me and Stan,
it feels like she's been kind of like... It's probably a reactivity thing on my part but
it feels like she thinks that we're not doing work or like we're not working hard enough.
And she's been... Stan called it micromanaging which I've said a few times but I don't really
know if that was the case. She's kind of doing what Zabi was doing. But she's like coming
around and checking what we're doing and being like, "Okay, spend an hour doing this." And
then... In some ways, good. She's giving us some directions. She's saying, "Do this for
this amount of time and then move on to doing this." But she just doesn't really understand
how long things take that we're doing. She's not an admin. She was a stock controller.
She has no idea most of what we're doing. So she doesn't really know how long... Everybody
who's not doing the statement seems to think the statement is quite an easy... Not that
big of a deal. And it is. It fucking takes at least half of the day every fucking time.
It just seems like a lack of communication. She's obviously really fucking stressed as
well. I think she's overworked. She's quite new to manage. I think this is her first management
position. And I think she's just not coping with it all that well and is trying to do
her job of checking in on things and giving us some direction. And it's just kind of coming
off as micromanage-y. And I feel like she's treating us like we're not working hard enough.
And we have a new person who's taken over what Tian's been doing because Tian got fucking
sent somewhere else by Kvesh to do shit without asking... It sounds like without asking Brad.
And then Miranda with a new lady got put in to do Tian's job by Kvesh with no consultation
to Brett. And Miranda is not an admin, has never done admin work, doesn't want to do
admin work and is really struggling and is really fucking stressed and is talking to
me about it. And it seems like Bri is taking that as us gossiping about her or talking
about it behind her back or trying to undercut her or something. And to be honest Miranda
is doing that a little bit. She is kind of gossiping about she's calling her a bitch
and saying she's... All this office politics shit. I feel like Miranda kind of creates
a bit of or turns things into drama a little bit. And I'm just trying to hear her out.
Because I've also been frustrated and I have a couple of times expressed my frustration
out loud. Not necessarily with Bri just in general. Although a couple of times, like
once or twice with Bri, a little bit whispered to Stan but still in the open when Bri wasn't
there. Because I've just been getting really fucking frustrated because more and more resources
keep getting fucking poured into the people on the phones and we have no resources. We
haven't gotten any new resources at all and we're fucking drowning and have been for months.
There's nothing being done about it. And they didn't really explain very well up until very
recently. Bri didn't explain very well up until very recently that basically we won't
be able to hire anybody until we can prove that we need them. Which means we need to
do like each of us admins needs to do an audit basically. A time audit and say this is the
task we do. This is how long they take. This is how much of our time is taken up by this
stuff and what our day looks like basically. So we can actually present that. And then
this is all the stuff that's not getting. Anyway, I'll skip past some of that. Basically
things have been difficult. I've largely, partly because of the fact that I don't want
to be working full time and I'm working full time and the job is really fucking stressful
at the moment and I've asked multiple times for resource, for like extra help. For us
to get more people and it's been knocked back several times and they didn't really explain
very well why that was the case and Bri's been a struggle to deal with. I feel like there's
been office politics going on. I feel like she's been treating me and Stan badly in some
ways. And all of that has made me feel frustrated. Like my needs are not being respected. My
work's not being respected. Like I'm not being appreciated. It's made me feel a bit resentful.
It's made me feel hurt. It's made me feel scared. I've felt anxious and stressed quite a lot
because I'm overwhelmed. Like I'm trying to juggle all these fucking balls and it feels
like I'm drowning in work and my bosses think I'm not working hard enough. It's felt unjust
basically. I've been quite angry about it actually. So I've been angry. I've been hurt,
not really actually that sad. It's made me feel like, "What's the fucking point?" kind
of thing. It's made me feel very overwhelmed, stressed out, distracted. Like I don't want
dreading going to work, afraid, thought about quitting multiple times, all that kind of
stuff. And then today Brett came and sat down with me and basically just had a chat with
me. He sat down with me just to check in with me and see how I was going. Because today
I was the only person, the only admin in because Miranda was there this morning but she got
sick and had to leave. Tialan's been taken to fucking Indooroopilly to do work there.
Brett's son was sick so he had to take the day off and Kevisha finishes at 12.30 on Wednesdays
and has Thursdays off. And Sam has Wednesdays off. So I was the only admin in and there
was an enormous amount of work to do. And Bree just did not fucking know what, she just
doesn't know how long things take. She keeps asking me to do shit that's like, "I don't
know how to do," or just had to pause it for a while while I was fucking navigating the
rickety back streets. Yeah. Things have been hard. I feel like I haven't been listened
to. There's all this office politics going on. Like, admins being chronically under-resourced
for some fucking reason despite everybody else getting resources poured into them. Nobody's
really listening to us and saying, you know, to the fact that we're fucking struggling.
And it's, you know, neither me or Stan wants to bother Bree or Brett so we kind of just
grin and bear because they're busier than we are. Kevesh has fucking no idea what we
do. EJ has no fucking idea. Brett's the only person who knows what we do and he doesn't
know how long it takes to do the statement because he doesn't see how big it is. Fucking
Miranda got put on for no apparent reason. She just got put on to take over Tian's job
and has no fucking desire to be an admin. Hasn't ever done admin work before. Wants
to be on the phones and the person who's on the phone, and Cassie's on the phones, doesn't
want to be on the phones, would rather be doing admin and has done admin work before
and is well placed, has the kind of mindset set for it and Kevesh won't let them switch.
Like it's just, there's so much fucking lack of communication going on and office politics
is just bullshit. But today Brett came and sat down with me and asked me how I'm going,
had a little bit of a chat to him about how he's going. He's also fucking stressed and
he said he just had an hour long conversation with his leadership coach who basically said
ask for help because he's clearly also fucking struggling. But he came to actually have a
chat to me today because I was the only admin on and I was visibly struggling and he came
and asked how are you going, what's happening. Basically came to ask how are you checking
on me, how's my mental health going. And I said look, I'm struggling. I have been struggling
for a while, I'm really stressed, I don't feel like I can keep up with everything there
is to do already. Pretty much just explain things. Where I was coming from, asked, said
hey look I've asked about getting other people, I've asked a few people about getting an admin
in and he said he actually properly explained, yeah look, higher ups are not going to let
us do it. Like if, and I was like, we need to know what you're struggling with and I
was kind of like everything. And he said if I tell the higher ups they're not going to
believe me, we need to actually have a breakdown of, then he explained, do a time audit, tell
us what your day consists of, how long things take, what you're doing, what you're not getting
done. And that way, and he said, between him and me we basically said yeah like everybody
on the admin team should be doing that so we can get a list of tasks and take that to
somebody and actually fucking get somebody. Because he also wants somebody to fucking
come in but we need to convince the higher ups for some fucking reason despite the fact
that they can pour 14, the entirety of the fucking phone team in the entire fucking building
can get on the phones but we can't get even one more fucking admin person. But, um, what
the fuck does this one really go? No, that ain't happening. So basically it felt like
Brett actually, like, finally had a chance to actually have a conversation with Brett
and he fucking heard me out and completely understood and was actively concerned about
me and my mental health and how I was going and what I was doing and yeah. And we had
a conversation, I talked to him, clearly he had no idea what was happening with Brandy,
he didn't hire her, she was just suddenly starting, he had no idea, she's not a fucking
admin, she doesn't know what she's doing. He asked her to do the statement and the other
day and had no fucking clue that she had no idea how to do any of that shit and I explained,
look, I think she's really struggling, she doesn't know, she's not an admin, she doesn't
know what she's doing. She's really stressed at the moment and the statement is taking
her a long time and she's really fucking struggling with the journal side of things. And you know,
I was also saying, look, we need Tian back. She's really good at the statement and she's
really good at tracking people down, tracking down suspense payments and you know, she has
all the contacts and stuff and it was like yeah, I'm gonna go get her back basically.
So it actually felt like somebody fucking listened to me for once. Basically all I wanted
was to be fucking heard. Somebody actually listened to my concerns rather than just fop
me off and tell me I'm basically implicitly, feels like they're telling me I'm doing a
shit job when I'm fucking drowning because nobody will. But now I actually feel like
I can kind of come to them in the admin team and say hey look, here's the things I'm doing,
I'm not doing any of these things, you keep telling me to do the Inkey Accounts inbox,
I don't know how to do it, I don't know what I'm fucking doing, most of it's deposits,
I don't know how to do that. I haven't had a chance to sit down with anybody and do any
of that stuff because I'm fucking drowning in other work. Apparently I need to convince
you that I'm fucking fucked. But yeah, I'm doing the concur clearing and the rego clearing
and the concur receipts and SAM invoices and the statement and trying to fix up that absolute
shit show that I think is rego related. Answering questions, all sorts of shit. Anyway, it's
about feelings. And the other big thing was that Brett basically explained that Sam had
- I was like oh yeah, hopefully Sam comes back and Brett said she's quit. She put in
her month's notice and she's taking off Wednesdays because she's seeing a therapist. So she's
obviously hyper fucking stressed, which is completely understandable, she's been fucking
stressed for ages. So basically, clearly she's taking a day off every week on her way out.
Which means Brett has opened that to that happening. And clearly she's quitting because
she's stressed, she's negotiated taking a day off. So all of that basically made me
feel like I can actually fucking talk to someone, I can actually talk to Brett. I felt relief.
I was smiling and happy and like actually, fuck it, I will stay an extra half hour today
and do work for Brett. I will do this for Brett because he's actually fucking listened
to me and he's made me feel capable of doing my job and kind of given me his approval I
guess. I'm not doing a shit job, I'm actually being listened to, etc. He cares about me.
It was like my mood completely fucking changed. I still don't want to do the job. I'm still
fucking stressed but I'm actually like not fucking, I am walking out tomorrow kind of
thing which is what was happening before with the way I felt I was being treated by Brett.
I have to pause it because I'm on a very fucking busy roundabout. Anyway, yeah, so feelings
were happiness, respect for Brett. I respected him a lot more and I felt connected to him
and I felt happy, seen. I felt like I kind of wanted to build more of a relationship,
like closer to Brett now, I wanted to build more of a relationship. I find him a little
bit difficult because I don't really know how to talk to him because of the way he acts
but he's still, he can be quite open sometimes and I kind of want to just chat to him a bit
more I guess, to get to know him a bit more. But yeah, so I felt a lot better today, like
in the last half hour after talking to Brett. The other big thing was I feel a bit now like,
I have been feeling like on Monday, I was very close to just peening in my two weeks
notice on Monday. I am, after having a chat to him today and I feel more capable of raising
a few things in the admin thing and saying, "Hey look, here's the stuff I'm not getting
done and here's all the things I don't know how to do." And I actually feel really intimidated
by the accounts inbox because I don't know how to do most of it. I look at it and I'm
like, "Oh god, I don't know." And I feel really worried about, I feel stressed out about asking
you guys, Brett, about how to do things because I know you are super busy all the time. So
I'm like, I kind of put it off. I know everybody's super busy so I put it off. And I also don't
really have the fucking time to learn at the moment. So yeah, I don't really know how to
do most of the things in the inbox, the accounts inbox. So I feel more capable of talking about
that and some of my problems. But the bigger thing is I feel like I don't necessarily need
to just hand in my recognition, designation straight away. I feel a bit more capable of
maybe having a conversation with Brett and saying, "Look." I also kind of want to have
a bit of a conversation with Bri because I feel like a few people kind of keep coming
and talking shit to me about Bri and I feel like she's starting to think that I'm trying
to, that I'm talking shit about her and I'm often in those conversations trying to say,
"Look, she's doing the best she can. This is probably her first, she's stressed as fuck."
Zabi was talking to me this afternoon about the fact that Stan and Miranda had both come
and had a chat to her because she keeps coming, Miranda keeps trying to wanting to go outside
and have a chat with me about stuff, usually about Bri. And then Bri came out this morning
and was like, "Hey, you guys okay?" And was like, she doesn't seem to want to let us talk
about things so I think she maybe feels like we're talking about it behind her back and
Miranda kind of is. But I'm trying to not do that. I'm frustrated with her. And Zabi
was like, "Stan and Miranda have both talked to me and bitched to me about Bri and what
she's doing." She said, "The power's gone to her head." And stuff like that. And I was
like, "Look, she's probably really stressed. She's working 60 hour weeks. She's doing
so much overtime. This is probably her first..." I'm not talking shit about it. I'm trying
to talk her up. I'm trying to basically defend her to... I don't want to get involved in
bullshit and gossip and politics and all that shit. And I have kind of expressed my frustration
out loud a couple of times, including about Bri, which I need to not do. So I kind of
want to sit... have a conversation with Bri and say, "Hey, look. I feel like you're struggling
a bit. I feel like you are feeling like we're talking shit about you." Just air things a
bit. And talk about Miranda like, "Hey, look. I think Miranda's really struggling." Etc.
But yeah. So after talking about all of that stuff with Brett, I now feel like I feel a
bit more comfortable to maybe sit down with him and explain where I'm coming from with
the full-time thing and say, "Hey, look. I am thinking of quitting because it's actually
really important to me to be doing not full-time at the moment. I'd like to be doing four
days a week. That's actually really important to me for mental health reasons, for life
reasons, all sorts of reasons which I don't necessarily need to list out to him, but I
care a lot about doing... It's really important to me to be doing a four-day week, basically,
at the moment for multiple life reasons. But I also know that it's really important for
you guys to... You kind of need all the hands on deck. So I can have conversations and say,
"Look, because of that, I'm kind of considering quitting and giving a month's notice and going
and finding another job where I can work four days a week. And also, I've been here for
a year and a half. I'm not really developing skills that are going to be helpful for me
for the career I want to get into. I kind of want to get into more research-based stuff,
so I kind of want to get a research assistant job." Just kind of having a conversation about
where I'm at, an honest conversation with Brett about where I'm at, and say, "Look, I
wanted to be doing four... If I was doing four days a week here, I would probably stay
longer, but I will probably leave within the next... Probably within some time this year,
because I do want to start building some skills in other areas." Yeah. Just have an honest
conversation with Brett about where I'm at, basically, and see what he thinks and see,
"Hey, is he willing for me to do four days a week, or would he prefer that I quit, in
which case I'll do the right thing and give them a month's notice, give them lots of notice,
maybe even wait six weeks notice so they can get past the fucking end of June bullshit?"
Yeah. I think Brett would be open to that, and after today, I feel I respect him enough.
I respect him, and I want to do that with him, basically. He really kind of showed me
his colors today.
