I'm really struggling to do this philosophy stuff.
Part of it is I don't want to be on the computer.
I want to be away from it.
I want to be able to find a way to do it without being at my computer.
But, let's just guess what this was for really.
It's kind of hard to gather my thoughts this way.
In some ways.
But, I think there's this gnawing, nagging sense that that's really what I want to be doing.
That's what I should be doing.
That's what I wanted to do so often while I was with Holly.
And now I just keep having that feeling and then trying to push it away and do other things instead.
I tell myself, "Ah, I'll do it on the weekend."
And it gets to the weekend and it gets my day off. I'm just going to rest.
But it invigorates me so much when I do do it.
And I keep bouncing between now and the same time.
It's like my obsession with philosophy has dimmed down a bit and now I'm obsessed with 40k again.
So I'm thinking about that all the time.
I'm reading it every morning.
I'm thinking about it constantly.
Which of course means I'm then also thinking about how I would do things differently.
Which is just endlessly tiring because it just feels like a waste of time.
And now Jordan's just said he's bought Arkham Horror, the old CG, the core box.
Now of course I'm thinking about my board game again.
I wear myself out.
And I want to do that thing but I end up doing none of them.
Maybe I should just go with whatever I feel like at the time and dive into it.
If I'm feeling like doing the board game stuff, do the board game stuff and just lean into it really fucking hard.
Don't hold myself back because I feel like it's a waste of time or because I should be doing something else.
Just do it.
And if the next day I feel like doing philosophy stuff, just do that.
Actually do something though because that's the thing. I'm not...
I am doing this. I am starting to do some reflecting and thinking.
I know there are changes happening.
I'm doing some of the mental health work and emotional work that I've needed to do for a while.
But I'm not actually doing...
I'm not taking, really taking...
There's all these life admin tasks like selling my car and setting up my finances and all that kind of stuff that I'm avoiding.
Because I only have two days and I don't want to spend it doing that stuff.
Sometimes I wish life would just...
Things are good for all of a couple of months and then I just wish I could pin them down like that for a while.
But that's not how life is. It always changes.
It's constantly changing.
Nothing ever stays the same.
The good comes, the good's there and it goes, then the bad comes and then I guess the bad comes and goes.
Yeah, I don't know.
