Just a quick note. I've actually forgotten what the fing night was now. I'm out on
my walk, my lunch time walk at the moment, and I'm already really enjoying the prospect
of being able to do this on every walk. Yeah, that's just a little quick idea. What if...
Am I... Is this recording? Hello? Yes it is. I haven't quite worked out the controls on
this thing. Just a quick note. This is 40k related, or kind of just game design related.
The way you could get around... I think that the way... I'm really, really impressed with
Games Workshop with 40k 10th edition. Some of the things they're doing are just like
really elegant ways of dealing with problems. Like, you know, they wanted space marines
to have different... to be better with bolt guns than other people. So on most models,
and in the past, they would used to have to have a special rule, army wide special rule
for space marines that was like, treat their rapid fire weapons as just... they can do
their full number of shots at any range. They have to get a special little instance in.
Whereas in the new edition, for most people, bolters are the same as they used to be. They're
one shot at rapid fire... and rapid fire... rapid fire at... yeah, exactly the same as
they used to be. Whereas, you look at them, they're like attacks one, rapid fire one.
But for any space marines that have bolters, they're just... bolter attacks two. So they
don't have rapid fire, they've just got their full shots at all ranges. Which means that...
which means that... they're fucking... yeah, it's such an elegant way to solve the problem.
Or, you know, a heavy is doing... the special rule heavy is doing double duty as both a...
like a way for... to get like a... an aiming bonus by having models that stand still increase
their ballistic skill, but it also is doing the old thing that heavy used to do where
it reduces... you lose some ballistic skill if you move by having specific models have
a lower ballistic skill. Is this still going? Yeah, fuck it, how is this even confusing?
So you have the heavy rule as allowing models to both... you know, you can have like a sniper
who if they stand still gets +1 to hit, but it also lets them have... rather than have
to have a special rule somewhere, they just have models that have heavy weapons that can't...
so like if it's like a Terminator or a tank, it wouldn't normally lose rather than have
a special rule where they ignore the... rather than having a special rule where they ignore
the penalty from heavy as it was in the old edition like with Terminators and Tanks. Now
it's just that they don't put the heavy rule on the weapons wielded by... even when it's
the same weapon, they just don't put it on the weapon wielded by Terminators and Tanks.
So it gets around that problem. They don't have to have like a fucking special rule to
counter another special rule, it's just... their stats are different. So they might have
that and then have people who don't have that benefit have like a space marine with a heavy
balter is ballistic skill 4 or ballistic skill 3 with heavy 1. So it gets around... it's just...
it's pulling... it's doing so many things, it's condensing things, it's just really fucking
elegant. The only problem with that is that you now have like the same weapon, balter
or bolt gun on multiple cards with different profiles. So you can never really... it's
kind of hard to ever be like... because they're different, you can't ever quite tell what something's
going to do. It's like it's kind of hard to reference across people. I thought a way you
could do that is by having at the very least having like little tiny cards in Arkham where
they've got like a number out of the set. You could have like card numbers on index
cards, like just a tiny little number in the bottom right corner or something. So it's
like index card 1, S1, space marine SM1 or something for space marine 1, depthless Astartes
A1, something like that. Yeah. And then maybe... so it would just like reference that. Yeah.
