So thinking about how I'm feeling at the moment with kind of giving myself a day to just do
what I want, you know, and bringing all my stuff out onto the main table, laying all
my books out on my game stuff, walking around and talking to myself like this quite a lot,
and reflecting back to the past, you know, while, sorry, all of which, while Mum and Dad
aren't here, and reflecting back to the past, I think part of the reason I spent so long
here and was so happy to spend so much of my life here and was happy to not move out
was because, particularly while I was studying, I kind of had the run of the place. When I'm
here during the day on my own, it's a really nice place to be, it's a really relaxing setting,
and it's, I have all the space I need to be myself, explore my thoughts, do this, walk
around, pace around, talk to myself, and thinking about it, I used to do that all the time.
I used to talk to myself constantly, I used to explain things out in conversation, I'd
pace around the house talking to myself, and the reason I could do that was because I was
here basically, basically Dad would go to work and not get home until like four o'clock,
three or four o'clock, and Mum would be out in the garden most of the day, she'd spend
most of her time out in the garden. So I basically had the place to myself, and it's a really,
during the day, it's a big, dark, cold, and lonely at night, but during the day, it's
a fucking nice place to be on your own, and I was basically on my own, I basically had
the place to myself for most of the years post high school. Mum would be almost always
out the back hanging out, doing her, like she would be out there from the moment I woke
up until like four or five o'clock at night, she'd be out there all the time doing her
gardening, and Dad would be at work, so I would just be able, and she'd usually be,
she'd be way too busy, Mum would be way too busy, and things felt really right that way,
it felt so good, seeing Mum pottering around the garden, having a two o'clock tea time
where we'd sit down, two o'clock tea time, it just felt so good, especially this time
of year when it was this gorgeous sunlight filtering in, things felt good, they felt
right, I was still, there were certainly problems, but this gorgeous setting, big comfortable
house, Mum doing what she loves doing out the back, giving me space, you know, having
Molly often out there sitting in the garden with her, helping her out, those were really
good times, they were lovely, you know, and then having that moment of connection, watching,
seeing Mum, like the world felt right when Mum was out in the garden, it's like the place
she belonged, she came alive out there, and she loved it, and I felt so at home here,
because I had so much space to myself, to be myself, and I had those moments of connection
in the afternoon where Mum would, at two o'clock I'd go out and have a tea with her, and we'd
have a bit of a chat, so I still had that human connection, and then Dad would come
home after work, and I would usually go for a walk or like retreat to my room, although
to be honest I was in my room most of that time anyway, but you know, thinking back to
those days, the days of my doing uni, like my uni days basically, while I was living
here but also studying uni, and they were really good, even when I came back from Korea,
I was really struggling, particularly when I came back from Korea, and there was always
problems and I was often unhappy, but the way those days felt during the work week,
when I would be at home picking away at things, watching Mum, watching the gorgeous sunlight
filtering in, sitting out the back writing and reading, I think actually that space I
had to myself, and Mum out in the garden doing the things she loved, giving me that space
but also sharing a space with her, sharing the house space but also still having that
space, it's actually really that space to myself where I don't feel judged, I don't
feel like I have to dance around other people, I don't have to like, you know, I can't,
when I'm doing this, I can't do this when Mum and Dad are in the house, I can't talk,
and this is so important to me, this is how I process things, I'm realising, I pace and
I talk, I talk it out to myself, and I can't do that when Mum and Dad are here, I constantly
feel like I'm on edge, like I'm, maybe not, on edge is a little bit too harsh, it's more
like I constantly feel like I'm on the edge of having to interact, it's that space to
not interact with people, I come alive, I feel so much more able to do the things I
want to do when I don't have to be around other people, don't have to give into other
people's expectations, don't have to, you know, make small talk with Dad or, you know,
listen to him come and interrupt me every fucking two seconds, yeah, I think, and that's part
of what, that's what I wanted with Holly, that's what I struggled to not get with Holly.
And it makes sense why I loved being here so much in the, previously, you know, I just
can't stress enough how much Mum being out in the garden, Molly sitting out there with
her, me often being inside or just sitting out reading or writing out the back, and then
in two o'clock tea time that pattern felt so right, I think it's because of that connection,
but also that space, and watching Mum do something she loved, but while having space to myself,
having the place to myself to have my own thoughts, to not have to dance around other
people. And now those aren't the case anymore. Mum very rarely is out in the garden, you
know, it's winter, it's the time that she usually goes in the garden, she doesn't go
out anymore. Although to be fair I am at work all the time, so maybe she is and I'm just
not seeing it. But she's mostly, most of the time I'm here, she's either doing her pottery
or sitting in a room on a TV, sitting in a room on a chair watching TV, and Dad is here
all the fucking time. He's here constantly. So I don't have that space here that I used
to have. That's why, part of why, I mean on top of all the other things that have changed
over my life, but I think that's the biggest part of why this doesn't feel like home quite
so much anymore. Yeah, that's an important insight because it's something I need to know,
I need to lean into for myself. You know, having a space to myself, having a place to
myself is so important. That's why I wanted a three bedroom place when I was living with
Holly so badly. Having a place where I can just, I don't feel like I can fully be myself
around other people, I haven't learnt how to do that. I never felt able to do that.
One of the things I really struggle with with Holly is, you know, going for walks and stuff
with her and going for drives. I often wanted to be in my own head or, you know, I didn't
know how to share that space with her. I've never learnt how to be myself entirely around
other people. It's not until I'm not around other people that I really feel like I can
be myself and do my own thing and really express myself like this, really explore my ideas
like this. I can't do that when I'm around other people. I like other people, but they
are such a drain on me. I'm not able to live my life the way I want to around other people.
I haven't learnt how to do that yet. That's really important. That's a really, really
important insight. And it's probably a big part of what happened with Holly, why I struggled
so much. And it's something to be keeping in mind in basically any other relationship
I ever have.
[gulp]
[gulp]
