Why am I avoiding philosophy?
I just realised I haven't really engaged with it at all since I was listening to the
ethics stuff about the ethics of care and since that last Saturday night with
Holly when I went out and went to the comedy show and the last kind of date
sort of thing. I've not really been thinking about it since then. I've in
fact actively been avoiding it every morning rather than listening to my
podcast and being excited to listen to my podcast. I'm doing something else to
often I'm just thinking honestly I'm thinking about 40k quite a lot. How deep
does my avoidance go? And also why do I feel the way I do about the bush? What
do I actually feel? It's like I can't engage with it. Maybe I find it
uninspiring. I don't know. It's beautiful in its own way especially this time of day.
Maybe it's a reminder of Australia and always for a long time feeling out of
place here. If I maybe romanticised and idolised England and the United Kingdom
and Britain and Europe I think I felt out of place and not at home here for
quite a while. And for a long time felt some kind of like attachment almost
spiritual in some ways to the idea of Scotland for example. And I in some ways
in some ways in other ways it was you know still reality and things sucked at
times but in some ways I I did find that a bit. I don't think the
reality of Scotland lived up to my expectations but I think my expectations
had kind of died. Those spiritual feelings I had when I was younger had kind of died
down by then by the time I got there but still still delivered in quite a few ways.
Is it like, is it my white whale? Is it like this thing that I hold in the
distance in the future as something to like give me hopes and to work towards?
But I know I won't fix any of my problems. My problem here in me. I probably let
just as you know I may not feel at home there either. That feeling of not being
at home. I think that's the rootedness, unrootedness that Simone Veigh talks
about. I don't really feel like I can participate in this culture. I don't like
it. I feel distant, uninspired, out of place, out of time. How does that work to
relate to what John Vivecki talks about and what Heidegger talks about?
