It's 4.46pm on Tuesday the 30th of May. This is Kai, the receiver, sort of more just thoughts.
I'm on my way home from work, about 15 minutes away. I'm listening to episode 37 of This
Changes Everything. At about the 35 minute mark, Sarah talks about how people who are
disassociated from their emotions will often live in their head. They'll be thinking and
feeling with their shoulders up and they won't really be able to recognise or associate
or really notice or feel their feelings in their body all that much, which are most aware
the emotions happen. Which is exactly what happens for me in some ways. I'm hyper aware
of some other things as well, but I do feel kind of disconnected from my body at times.
I'm trying to actively ignore it almost. Also, just another, an actual receiver thing, Holly
texted me and said, "Sydney, without you is weird. It's strange." Basically saying, "I
miss you," without saying, "I miss you." And it made me cry. And I want to text, I just
want to call her and talk to her and find out how her time has been, what she's done
and tell her about my plans for Scotland and everything. But I'm probably going to say
to her, "I want to talk to you, but I don't know if that's good for either of us right
now." And it's making me second guess whether we, whether it was the right idea to break
up. At the same time as being like, "No, it was the right idea because I can't go down
to Melbourne right now and I'm going to sit in motherfucking Scotland next year." I don't
fucking know. Yeah, so listen a little bit more of This Changes Everything. She talks
to then, like a second leg, she talks about how people who are like that will often say,
"How do I think and learn about my feelings?" People who are in their head, who are disassociated
from their feelings will say, "How do I think and learn about my emotions?" rather than
actually trying to feel the emotions, I guess. Which I think is something I'm trying to learn
how to do. Because that is how I've approached it. I've tried to think about them. "What
am I thinking right now? What am I thinking about? What am I feeling?" Rather than reading
a book, you need to actually get in touch with your body and how you feel. Like doing
yoga, do mindful walking, mindful activities where you're focusing on the feeling of your
body. Breath work, exercises, connecting with the feeling of your body I think is an important
part of this, which is something I do want to do. Because I am fit. I don't like how
my body feels when I do physical things. I'm scared of how my body feels when I do physical
things and I try to kind of ignore it. It's not that I don't feel at home in my body.
I just feel incapable in my body. I don't feel powerful, I guess. I don't feel competent.
I'm okay with my body, but it doesn't feel like a safe place to be, I guess. I don't
really trust myself to... Yeah. I think I try to unconsciously detach from my body.
I try to not pay attention to how I'm feeling. My back pain is there all the fucking time.
My slump all the time. I try not to pay attention to that stuff. I try to pay attention to my
slump so I can fix it, but I'm so used to not paying attention to that that it just...
Yeah. So movement practices. Everything's pointing to it. Meditation and movement practices.
This basically comes back to, philosophically now, this comes back to knowing how versus
knowing that. It comes back to the Cartesian separation of the mind and the body. It comes
back to trying to reconnect with our whole selves, which includes our body and our body's
way of knowing how to do things and our... Rather than relying on everything through
the conscious rational mind, so much of what we do is not those things. It's innate or
it's habitual and it's learned and you need to connect more with those things. I am a
person who is in my head and thinks a lot. I often spend a lot of time thinking I need
to get in more out of my head and into the world. I need to find a way. It's something
that really matters. It's why I wanted to pick up a hobby that was physical. That's
still really important to me. It's very difficult for me at the same time, so I keep pulling
back from it. A little bit later, about 40 minutes, they talk about ways to make your
partner feel more safe to be vulnerable with you. The biggest thing they talk about is
making your partner feel like you're not judging them. The biggest... You're listening. The
biggest part of that is trying to listen and put yourself and your stuff aside. Especially
when they're talking about you and the ways that you've heard them or reacted... The ways
you've heard them or disappointed them or anything like that. It's very, very difficult,
but it's a skill to build. It's trying to put yourself aside. You're putting your reactivity
and trying not to be reactive. Trying to just be open and receptive and listen and say, "I'm
hearing what you're saying. Please tell me more." Which I tried to do a little bit, but
it was incredibly fucking hard to do with Holly. Especially around anything to do with
the stuff I was really hurt by. Looking after each other thing where she felt like she put
in a lot of effort. The first thing that made me feel like she didn't see all the effort
I put in, which was just a continuously painful thing for me every time. I just couldn't seem
to put that aside every time she talked about it. I couldn't listen to her or hear her.
All I could feel was my own pain. It was very hard not to make her feel... To make her feel
listened to and judged, not judged sometimes when I felt judgmental. When I was like, "You're
bitching about your parents again." I've just been at work all day. You don't talk to anybody
else about this. Every time we leave your parents, you talk about this. We get it. Your
parent relationship with your parents is fucked. I don't have the space for it right now. Fuck,
it's so hard. It's so hard to do. So fucking hard to do. Non-judgmental observation and
validation of what a person is saying and feeling and validation of that, which would
be greatly helped by mindfulness. Everything kind of leads back to this. This setting us
of this ego aside so that you can... It's like what Simone Weil talks about. It's what
nonviolent communication talks about. It's escaping the prison of the ego to be open
and receptive to others. It's important. It's what fucking mindfulness and Buddhism talks
about and tantric... It's what fucking David Chapman talks about with his tantric Buddhism.
Having that space between something happening and what it means for you, which unlocks all
this creative energy. Unlocking the power of meaninglessness that you can accept things
not immediately meaning something and giving them time, giving them space, being open and
receptive to what's there rather than immediately projecting, blasting out your individual ego,
splashing it all over the world kind of thing. Very difficult to do though. So many times
I'm out in my relationship where I felt that and I felt both sides of it. I felt the defensiveness
and the emotion but I was also conscious, able to think I don't want to be like this but I
don't know how to stop. I can't turn this off. I want to be able to just listen to you
and hear you and validate you but I can't right now. I can't get out of this feeling.
Which probably just comes down... Again comes down to skills around recognising... That's
because I don't have a great deal of emotional regulation skills because I was never taught
them and I have to teach them myself as an adult which is fucking difficult to do. Probably
more difficult to pick up as an adult because you just suck things up as a fucking kid.
More set in your ways. It's harder to break patterns and... Yeah. Anyway. It's just a
thing that you have to accept that you're not going to be good at for a while and you're
going to probably hurt yourself and hurt other people as part of that and just keep trying
and keep trying to practice it and you can't really do anything else and nobody else can
expect anything other than that of you basically. I think that happened a lot in our relationship.
Particularly as time went on I got more and more defensive. At the beginning of our relationship
I was actually really quite easygoing. I wouldn't take offence at quite a lot of things and
by the end I was taking offence at everything which means there was probably a whole bunch
of shit that was happening throughout the relationship that was grinding me down that
I wasn't recognising and raising or I was getting resentful of etc etc. Losing trust,
feeling less able to be vulnerable. I felt more able to be vulnerable at the beginning
of the relationship I think. That's something to really practice as part of this is that
active listening skill of really listening to what they're saying and repeating it back
to them. Really repeating it back to them so they know that you have heard what they're
saying. Which is something I'm trying to do. I'm trying not to say "Oh, you're doing this"
or "You think this". Trying to notice and really listen to what they're saying rather than what
I think and how I want to respond and reflect it back to them. That's something I really
want to work on but it is hard to do. But you can literally just, Sarah Rice is saying,
you can literally just say the same thing that they've said to you basically back to
them. A lot of people won't even notice.
