7.01am on Friday the 26th of May.
I think it's the 26th.
Yep, 26th.
On my way to work.
Damn, 7.01am and I'm at Aldwy.
Going well.
I was just listening to my SEVA from the other day when I was
talking about how I felt about the last conversation I had with Holly.
And I have a little bit more to say now.
I'd like to listen to a bit more of that.
And I think part of it is, part of the hurt is that
Holly talked about...
It kind of seemed like she wanted to just stop being in contact.
Move on entirely, stop being friends.
It seemed like she was kind of like putting the ball in my court,
just saying, "Hey, look, if you want to come down and have coffee,
catch up and have coffee, if you're in Melbourne at some point
and want to have coffee with me, we'll catch up."
Basically, that was it. That's it.
Yeah, kind of.
And she texted me before we had the conversation and said,
"I'm considering whether maybe it would be better for both of us
if we just completely move on."
And what I was saying, "I want to be friends,"
is because I didn't want to let go of the connection.
And I think I need to stop doing that.
And that hurts. That hurts me.
It's kind of like, in some ways, it's a bit like,
"What the fuck were we doing for the last two months?
Why didn't we not just cut this off entirely at the beginning
and save ourselves two months of fucking pain?"
We probably could have been much more further along by now.
But also, that's not what we talked about.
She said so many times throughout the process of us struggling
and breaking up that I was important to her
and that she wanted me in her life, even if it was just as friends.
And now, is that not the case anymore?
Was she just talking shit the whole time?
I just...
Yeah, I don't know. I'm actually really deeply hurt.
I want to cry right now.
I think part of it is feeling rejected, even my friendship feeling...
even my friendship being rejected.
I think part of it is...
feeling like I've done something really wrong to be rejected like that.
You know, like, I did hurt her and now she's realised how much I hurt her
and she doesn't even want to know me anymore.
That's like a really deep rejection.
I'm not really entirely sure if that's what she was saying, but...
it feels like that.
It feels like she's, in some ways, maybe she's doing that
because I rejected her attempts at trying to keep things going now.
But, like, what the fuck did she think?
How were we going to make that work?
None of our problems have been resolved.
We've still got all of the same problems.
And she was talking about doing things a different way,
but that's not the way that she was...
what she was talking about, that was not the fucking way that she acted
at all throughout the entirety of our relationship.
How am I supposed to believe that she's just going to completely fucking turn that around
within a couple of weeks?
The money problems are still going to be there.
The fucking Centrelink is still there.
She's living in Melbourne and I'm living in...
like, we can't be in a relationship because of Centrelink
and we're not going to be living in the same place.
Like, what the fuck are we...
what did she think we were going to do?
How would we possibly have made that fucking work?
I think this is part... actually a big part of where the pain's coming from.
It's like this level of rejection.
You know, you talked for ages about wanting to be friends and know each other
and how important I was to you, and now what you don't.
I made some mistakes.
Which, look, to be honest, I didn't even know if they were mistakes.
I hurt... they definitely hurt you.
My actions definitely hurt you.
But I don't know if I would call them mistakes because
I couldn't really fucking do anything else.
Like, I take responsibility for them.
For what? For the things that I did.
As much responsibility as I can.
And, you know, I recognise that it hurt you and it wasn't fair and you deserve better.
And you have to protect yourself.
But...
You know, because all the times that you said...
Maybe she's probably just being self-protective, I guess.
But she does need to be.
She needs to focus on herself.
And that's maybe what this looks like.
But it doesn't mean it... that doesn't stop it from fucking hurting.
It just feels a little bit like maybe she shouldn't have been in our relationship
from the beginning.
And this is... what I'm about to talk about is very much just, I think,
in the depths of emotion.
And when I calm down, I'll reckon, you know, I'll know.
It's like I feel this but I don't kind of... at the same time I don't accept the...
My more "rational" part of my mind doesn't really accept it as all that.
Not valid. It's valid for me to feel it but it's not...
Anyway, I've fucking talked so long I'm starting to forget about.
I think part of the pain is a bit like it feels like you shouldn't have been
in our relationship.
It feels like in some ways you've wasted my time.
You know, you spent the whole time, that you spent our entire relationship
wanting to be elsewhere.
Yes, you wanted to be with me and you chose me but you...
It feels like you resented me for that.
Then maybe you should have just fucking chosen Melbourne from the beginning.
Rather than getting swept away and getting obsessed with me,
just fucking choose Melbourne, the thing that actually mattered to you.
Not that I didn't matter to her but it feels a little bit like that.
You know, especially now that...
She spent all that time talking about how important I am to her
and that she wants to be friends regardless of whether...
She wants to know me regardless of what happens and now she's like,
"That ball's in your court."
Like, what the fuck was all that about then?
Why did you waste my fucking time?
Why did you not just fucking go to Melbourne to begin with?
Rather than spending three years with me, fucking resenting me.
For holding you back.
You know, you said there's a bunch of ways you regret
because you regret our relationship because you didn't do your life the way you wanted to.
Well, fuck you!
You should have fucking...
I was trying to hold fucking boundaries.
You're the one who got fucking obsessed.
And fucking apparently threw your life down the fucking drain
so you could spend some time with me.
I'm deeply hurt and deeply upset.
And when I calm down I will probably see her side of things a bit more
but right now these feelings are fucking valid.
It's time to stop pussyfooting about around my own feelings
and making excuses for other people.
And actually just feel my feelings and feel their validity.
It is valid to feel this way.
Right now I feel like she wasted my time for the last three years.
Not entirely.
And I don't regret the relationship but
it feels like she maybe shouldn't have fucking been in our relationship.
No.
It makes sense why I felt like her love was overwhelming.
Because it was.
She was fucking obsessed.
She threw her fucking life off the fucking deep end
to...
Because she was obsessed with me.
And I fucking felt bad about not loving her enough for fucking years.
Fuck that.
I'm not doing that again.
And I knew at the time there was a part of me that knew this is too much.
Because she was fucking obsessed with me.
She did not have a healthy relationship with me.
At least at the beginning.
I think she trauma bonded.
I was kind to her and she had kindness for the first time in her fucking life
and she became fucking obsessed with me.
And she in some ways remained obsessed with me for the entire fucking relationship.
And now she blames me for that.
Or I stopped doing my art.
That's your fucking fault.
You are the one who chose to do that.
There's nothing to fucking do with me.
Take responsibility for that yourself.
It doesn't have nothing to do with me.
But...
It has much more to do with her than it does to do with me.
It's not my fucking fault you became obsessed with me.
You have the fucking gall to tell me...
You know, you hurt me. I stopped doing my art.
I'm not gonna do our relationship again
and actually maybe I'm just not even gonna be friends despite fucking talking about
how important I was to her for fucking years.
I'm really fucking angry.
I don't deserve this shit.
I didn't deserve the fucking...
Fucking pressure she put on me and that I put on myself
for the last fucking three years.
To try and meet her fucking insane obsessive level of fucking love.
Right now there's a pretty big part of me that wants to tell her to get fucked
and never speak to her again.
And tell her all of this and make her feel shitty.
Make her recognise what she...
How she has made me feel.
What she did.
And how unfair it is to blame me for her fucking not doing her art.
I wanted to do... I tried to support her to do that.
That's all I fucking wanted. So many fucking times I said
"Please, just go do your art."
I was ecstatic. That's what I wanted.
That is what I fucking wanted out of our relationship.
I wanted you to go do your art and do the things you wanted to do
that you were passionate about so that we could have that together.
It's not my fucking fault you didn't do your fucking art.
It's yours.
Do not fucking blame me for that.
In conclusion, fuck you, Holly.
I will calm down at some point and see her side of things more
and miss her and be sad and all of those things.
But right now it is valid to feel this anger
and I need to stop making excuses for other people
and trying to push my anger away
because I don't want to hurt other people.
Fuck that.
This is valid.
