7.42am on Saturday the 27th of May. This is my SEVA for the day, kind of, a little bit.
It's kind of a SEVA. I'm doing a... I just listened to my SEVA that I did yesterday,
where I was expressing my hurt and anger about my last conversation with Holly where she
was talking about... It's strange I'm doing it in the almost exact same place as yesterday
and I'm in Adderley again. Yeah, the last conversation I had with Holly on the phone
about us, her leaving the ball in my court and her not doing our... saying no to our
relationship and her blaming me for... I don't know if she actually blamed me, but
her... what was it? She put... Look, I don't... I'm just going to say you blame me for her
not doing her art, but I think it's a bit more complex than that. She didn't say, "You
made me stop doing my art." She said, "I stopped doing my art because of the effort
I was putting into our relationship." Which I had a bunch of which, quite a lot of which,
a large part of which, basically said, "Because you couldn't tell me what you needed and couldn't
express yourself and that hurt me." So I don't know if that's really blaming me for not doing
her art. But, anyway, it still feels like she was blaming me, I guess. And yesterday I certainly
felt like that. But I think yesterday was pretty much the first time I have ever gotten
myself on tape really genuinely expressing anger. Obviously I've expressed anger a bit
before, but I've never recorded myself doing it, so I've never really been able to listen
to myself expressing anger. And my anger tends to fade really quickly, somewhat. At least
the hot, really angry part of it, the kind of low-level frustration, resentment kind
of sticks around. Actually quite a lot, but the really burning anger where I kind of can't
contain myself and just really express it, that really fades really quickly. Which makes
sense, I think, because now, listening to myself expressing that anger, it makes me
really uncomfortable. I was really uncomfortable, especially when I started saying, "Fuck you,
Holly." I was actually really uncomfortable and second-guessing everything. When I was
saying, "Oh, it's valid to feel what I'm feeling," I was like, "Is it?" So even now,
outside of that feeling, I'm not quite letting... It's too fucking loud. When I'm not in that
feeling, I don't seem to be comfortable with that feeling, like hearing myself expressing
it. I'm kind of going back on it and being like, "Oh, maybe that was a bit much. Maybe
that wasn't valid," etc., etc., which does make it kind of hard to be... It's probably
part of why it's hard for me to express my anger and frustration, because I'm not comfortable
with my own anger and frustration. I think I'm just not okay with anger. I'm uncomfortable
with anger and frustration in general, other people's and my own, which makes sense given
what happened when I was in grade five with my teacher, mum and dad, they're anger. I
probably got angry and the times I got angry, dad shut me down because he would get angry
at me getting angry at just anything. Even when it wasn't him, he'd just get angry. The
way he was getting angry and frustrated with mum the other day because she was scared and
anxious, he just gets angry when people display strong emotions. Or maybe he's not getting
angry, but he gets really short, which is probably him being unable to deal with their
emotions and getting uncomfortable, which is probably a big part of... Fucking hell,
this is a bunch of insights. That's probably why watching him do that to mum and him doing
that to me is probably now why I don't feel comfortable having emotional conversations
with him. I feel like our relationship is emotionally really shallow and I don't feel
comfortable talking to him about my emotions at all, displaying my emotions to him. Yeah,
because so many times throughout my life I've watched him get really short and frustrated
and sometimes all the way into angry at mum for her being... When she gets stressed and
scared and anxious, he doesn't comfort her, he fucking shuts her down and gets angry at
her, which is really shitty. And quite a lot when I was younger he would get frustrated
and angry at me. He would raise his voice and talk in a really abrupt kind of way and
aggressive kind of gesturing. Not aggressive gesturing, maybe aggressive... I don't know,
like noticeably a different feeling, like he would be noticeably angrier or... I don't
know if I can save... Maybe that's not his... It felt angry to me, it felt like he was angry.
Not like his volcanic anger but still angry when I expressed anger about things that had
nothing to do with him. Anger or frustration or like... It's like he would be uncomfortable
with my feelings and try to explain them away or say "Oh, just do this." Like the other
day when I was angry at the person at work, angry at Bree for not listening to my struggle,
like not listening to the fact that we needed more fucking workers. I felt like I was being
shut down and he was kind of just saying "Just keep hammering away at you needing more people.
That's not going to do anything, dad. You're not actually listening." Well, somewhat. Like,
you know, that's completely unhelpful advice. It's not going to do anything. They've made
it clear that they're not going to do that and it feels like you're kind of... I think
he's just uncomfortable with my emotions and trying to resolve the problem so he doesn't
have to deal with it anymore. And in the past when I would push back against what he was
saying and say "Look, you know, you're but this and but that" and he'd just like get angry
at me telling him why his suggestions aren't going to fucking work. Or why, you know, like
him getting angry at me for being angry about Centrelink. Like... No wonder I have a problem
with that. No wonder I'm uncomfortable with fucking angry anger, including my own. I've
never been... Like, my anger has been delegitimised and shut down my entire fucking life. And
now I've internalised that and I've shut down my own anger. Fucking nonsense. Thank you,
Dad, for that. No wonder I fucking have trouble with emotion. He's so uncomfortable he has
to like shut it down. Which isn't entirely accurate. He is able to sit with it sometimes.
Sit with other people's hard emotions. But like what seems like a lot of men of that generation,
he does not have much in the way of emotional capacity or emotional ability to deal with
emotions. And then that's been passed on to me. No one has to do all the fucking work.
Because he never has and probably never will. And this is part of what feminists talk about
when they talk about the patriarchy. This is part of the patriarchy. And toxic masculinity.
You know, men's inability, being raised, unable to deal with their own or other people's emotions
and that just getting fucking passed on and them not doing any of the work to deal with
those emotions. I reckon some of that has to do with masculinity and inability to deal
with, like, weirdness around emotions has to do with, partly has to do with the intellectual
history of the West. Western tradition kind of denigrating emotions quite a lot. Because
a lot of the intellectual tradition of the West is kind of male-centered. Thought of,
you know, most of the big figures that are accepted as part of the canon are men. Women
weren't fucking educated. A lot of them couldn't even fucking read when a lot of these people
were, a lot of these men were coming up with their ideas. So it is very, yeah, the Western,
I mean probably most, most traditions, but the intellectual tradition of the West, influence,
women have had influence but it is male-dominated. Which is unfair for men who are now trying
to not to deal with that shit. And it's unfair for women forever who have ever been part
of that tradition and women now. You know, that we don't have the emotional skills and
tools and capacities to navigate the emotional fucking complexity of the world. We can't,
a lot of men don't have the emotional complexity and tools to be like, "My dad didn't give
me the emotional tools I needed and that's not fair, but also I still love him." And
those things can both be the case. Honestly, I think a lot of the shit that you see, we
see about men and a lot of the shit that feminists and women say about men and their frustrations
towards men are probably quite a lot to do with the fact that they have not been equipped
with those tools. And it's okay, it's fair on the part of women and feminists to get
frustrated at men. Very massive generalisation there, quote unquote, men who don't seem to
care and don't want to do the work, but how are they supposed to when their whole fucking
world view and everything around them denigrates emotions? Like, "Oh, you have to shove that
in." Like Jono said, "Don't ever cry at your father's wedding because you need to be the
strong one." Like, that's what we're taught. And it's pretty hard to fucking break that
shit. So it's fair to be frustrated, but also maybe see the bigger picture. It's fair to
be like, "No, I'm not going to teach men. That's not my job to teach men anymore. We've
been doing that for ages. They need to start getting on board themselves." Which is true,
men do need to do that, but you can't just expect them to break these thousands of years
of cultural conditioning. That's so much fucking responsibility to put on individuals. That
is not fair for women, but it's also not fucking fair for men either. Those expectations are
not fair. That is so much to put on individual people when there's all, like, when modern
life already fucking puts so much on us. And there's definitely just, yes, there is so much
being put on women too. Individual women. Ah, the whole situation's so fucked. And all
of this is stuff that needs to happen, but, you know, it's so much to put on people. Of
course people are going to fucking struggle with that. Life is so fucking much. We need
to give people the fucking... There's no support for any of that. At all. So, yeah, there's
no support. It's just, go, go, go, go, go, make money, make money. Do everything. All
the time. There's no support to fucking stop and reflect and, you know, the struggles I
have with having the time to fucking do the mental health work I need to do while also
all the other fucking demands that are on me. Ridiculous.
