These are some things I want to tell Holly when I respond to her.
Early mail.
I'm sorry. I'm so sorry that me saying no to you when you tried all these different ways for us to work recently hurt you so much.
I'm so sorry for that.
But...
We broke up for a reason.
You know, it hurt me to do that and I have been second guessing it.
It hurt me to say no and I have been second guessing it but we both made the decision mutually to break up.
And there was, we had good reasons for doing that. Both of us did.
And you said later that, you know, you were...
That you'd been incredibly stressed and overwhelmed and unable to think properly since the start of the year.
And that's why you made that decision. You felt like maybe you'd been too hasty.
You had good reasons to do that.
You know, we thought about it. We were flirting with it since July last year.
We have been trying.
And you had good, you wanted to break up too. You had good reasons for doing that.
It wasn't the situation. It was us.
The situation certainly didn't help.
But it was us. The problems were there regardless of the situation.
The situation just made them worse.
And it's like you've forgotten that.
And I also, I wasn't willing to say yes when there were a whole bunch of, you know,
none of our problems have been fixed and I don't see how...
I just can't see how...
I can't see how trying the things you were talking...
Oh fuck.
It's just that fucking map went crazy. It makes crazy noises.
I can't see how trying the different things you were talking about, you know, low contact, casual, long distance.
I can't see how they're going to fix any of our problems.
I feel like, yes, the low contact and long distance might.
But particularly the low contact, like, how am I supposed to believe that you're going to be able to do that?
Because that's not how you, you know, you said, oh maybe we did things the wrong way.
That's actually what I wanted.
But that's not how you acted at all for the entire three years.
How am I supposed to believe that that's suddenly going to change?
You have shown me absolutely no evidence of that.
Why would that just... how am I supposed to be okay with trying again when I know you're still going to...
I don't believe that you're going to be able to just do that because you couldn't for the last three years.
You know, and you wanted to have a long distance relationship that we can't tell...
like, we have to keep to ourselves because of Centrelink and you wanted to keep to yourself, to ourselves anyway, so we...
so like, because we'd already broken up.
So literally, it's a secret relationship that's long distance.
What kind of relationship is that?
I just...
You're bending over backwards to try and make this work when it doesn't.
That's the reason we broke up because this doesn't work.
We have been trying and trying and we both got tired of trying.
We both got tired of trying.
We couldn't deal with it anymore.
I'm sorry that hurts, but it's like you've forgotten all of that.
All of the reasons you had for breaking up.
And I have a whole... I'm not willing to say no, to say yes.
You know, I'm not moving down to Melbourne if we're not together.
I was ready to fucking... I was so ready to go.
I wanted that so badly, but I'm not moving to Melbourne if we're not together.
You know, my friends, my support systems, my financial security, all of that is here.
I'm sorry that you made the decision to stay with me when you wanted to go to Melbourne.
I was going to do that with you.
We were moments away from fucking doing it.
But then we broke up.
And we both chose to break up.
And I'm sorry that my need for space in our relationship hurts you.
I'm so sorry of that, but I am done apologizing for my needs.
I am done with you making me feel bad for my needs.
And I am not going to accept that me needing space meant that I didn't love you.
That is not fair.
I will not accept that.
I'm sorry it hurts you, but I need to be...
That is not going to change. That is who I am.
That's another reason.
That debt is never going to go away. Ever.
That is who I am.
I need miles of space.
And I'm fucking done trying to squash that part of myself for you.
I'm done with that.
I spent the first year of our relationship crushing it constantly and suffering for it and then feeling guilty and resenting you and then feeling so shit.
I'm done with that.
And I am done with you telling me my fucking needs are wrong.
Which is what you did.
I know you don't remember, but you did that twice.
You told me what I needed is not what a relationship looks like.
I guess not what a relationship with you looks like, Holly.
And I wish that wasn't the case, but it sounds to me like it is.
You know, when we were talking about this, we talked about it a tiny bit and you said, "Oh, I hope that wasn't to do with me."
And I didn't really say much because I didn't want to hurt you and because we were already overwhelmed.
But yes, it was mostly because of you.
You made me feel like my needs were wrong.
How the fuck was I ever supposed to talk to you about them?
I'm done.
I know you're hurt.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry for that.
But you need to fucking pay attention to yourself and stop wishful thinking.
There's so much else you said that is entirely accurate and true and I'm sorry for.
Yes, I should have fucking picked up a book on PTSD within the first year of our relationship.
That was a shitty thing to do.
There's reasons for it, but it doesn't really matter.
I should have done that.
I can't remember all the other things she said in that email.
There were a lot of things that were fair and accurate and I'm so sorry for.
I'm sorry that my needs made you feel rejected and all of that.
But do you know how crushed your needs made me feel?
How much I crushed myself to try and meet what you needed from me?
How much I gave in to you?
How much I gave up my own boundaries and then you got fucking angry at me for not standing up for my boundaries?
And then got angry and then got hurt and upset when I did stand up for my boundaries.
What the fuck am I supposed to have done?
I'm sorry you're hurt, but you need to start fucking thinking clearly.
Because we both made the decision to break up.
Stop acting like it was just a matter of time.
Stop acting like it was just me.
You know, you said all I needed was for my needs to be met and to have guideposts.
To know what you needed.
How the fuck was I supposed to tell you what I needed when the couple of times I did,
when I tried to communicate to you about the thing that was fucking tearing me apart about my needs,
you fucking sh- you told me- you got so upset and told me I was wrong.
That my needs were wrong.
Fuck you.
I came into this trying to think about what I'm going to say to her to apologise.
But every time I talk about this, all I can do is get angry.
You are being- there is so much that you're saying that is fair and I'm so sorry about.
But you are also being so fucking unfair about so many things.
And I can't tell you that because you think you're in the right.
You think you're completely in the right and you think you've done, you know,
you've done way too much that you've done more than you should have and everything past this point is you're just not going to do anymore.
Well, how much did I fucking do? How much have I done?
How much did I fucking crush myself down? How much did I take on your fucking problems?
How much did I take on your opinion and crush myself and assume I was the fucking bad guy?
Because you told me my fucking needs were wrong!
Fuck you!
I'm trying to put myself in your shoes. I'm trying to get past this but I am so fucking angry at you.
And you have no idea what you've done at all.
You think you're the- you think you're the only one who fucking suffered.
Like you've done so much. You don't see any of the fucking shit I did.
At no point in this have you said- have you actually told me, like, admitted any of the fucking shit I did in our relationship.
Fuck you!
I can't tell you any of this in my next e-mail because I am trying to just make it about you.
Just accept responsibility for the things I've done, for the hurts I've done and apologize and listen to you and hear you out.
I'm trying to just do that and I can't do that and tell you my side of things because then I'm taking away from that.
But I have done that again and again. I have fucking pushed- I have not told you what you have done to me, the way you've made me feel.
All throughout our fucking relationship because I tried not to hurt you.
Or often to be fair because I couldn't- I wasn't capable of it.
You know, this entire last few months I have continuously not told you what you've done to me.
And that's so unfair.
And there's so much about what you're dealing with that I did to you that is also unfair.
I'm sorry. I need a few days to process this shit.
I'm too angry right now to fucking care about putting myself in your shoes.
I'm going to do my best in a bit.
And you just don't seem to remember the times that you told me these things.
I don't remember the first time. I know there was a first time. I think it was at your parents place.
But I remember in fucking vivid detail the second time.
We were sitting on the floor in your office.
I had been in my office and you kept coming in and wanting to tell me things because you were trying to talk to me and trying to connect.
And you wanted to go- you wanted- you weren't trying to make efforts to do stuff.
You'd come and ask me stuff or say, "Hey, do you want to do this?"
And I kept saying no.
And you got upset and you said, "Why do you keep saying no?"
And we sat down on the floor and had a conversation.
And we talked about how much time do we actually want to spend together.
And I said, "Look, honestly, I would be happy if there were days- I would be fine. I would be completely fine if there were days where I came home and kissed you on the head, we kissed each other a good night, and that's it. That's all we did."
Obviously I don't want every day to be like that, but I would be fine with that.
At the beginning of our relationship, I was completely fine with seeing each other once a week and you told me that's not what a relationship is.
A girlfriend is not someone you see once a week.
Maybe that's what you need and that's what you need.
And obviously it was. That's fair.
But twice you told me that's not what a relationship- first time you told me that's not what having a girlfriend is.
And the second time you told me you have to be willing to spend time with the other person.
And I am.
How was I supposed to talk to you about any of this when you fucking told me what I needed was wrong twice?
And then when I tried to talk to you about how fucking overwhelmed I was, you dismissed me.
You told me you're just not going to be able to understand and tried to do all these things to fix it.
I didn't need you to fucking fix it.
I needed you to listen to me.
You didn't.
And I was overwhelmed because of us, because of everything that was happening.
I was going through so fucking much.
I cried in bed every fucking day for weeks on end next to you, trying not to wake you up.
I woke up every morning trying to hold back my fucking tears because I was so overwhelmed all the time.
And you just fucking dismissed me.
How the fuck was I supposed to ever talk to you about what I needed?
And those two things, the difference between my need for space and your need for not space,
and my overwhelm were the core problems of our relationship, and there was no resolving them.
That's why we broke up.
And you just seemed to have forgotten all that and blamed me for not loving you enough to be with you again
despite all those fucking problems which you knew about and chose to end our relationship because of.
And you said, "Why didn't you talk to me about this? You had that list. Why didn't you tell me any of these things?"
I'm going to say to you, part of the reason I said no was because you hurt me really, really deeply.
And I don't think those problems, and those problems haven't gone away, the things that caused you to hurt me,
the interactions between us that caused you to hurt me have not changed.
And I can't see them changing. That's a big part of why I said no.
Otherwise I would be stepping straight back into just getting fucking crushed again.
That's why I said no. There's only so much fucking pain I can take.
You said, "Why didn't you tell me any of these things when you had that list?"
It's because, I mean, one, again, how am I supposed to fucking talk to you about this stuff in our relationship
when you dismissed me and told me I was wrong?
And then, you know, I didn't because we were trying not to talk about our relationship.
I know we ended up doing that, but I was trying to minimize talking about our relationship.
And because I didn't want to hurt you, you know, you said at one point, "I hope," you know,
"me struggling to talk about my needs, I hope that," you said, "I hope that had nothing to do with that."
And I said, "No, not really." I lied because I didn't want to hurt you.
You had almost everything to do with it. And you hurt me so deeply.
I was trying to just to move on because that's what we were trying to do.
You know, and every time I tried to talk about our relationship, you didn't want to.
You weren't ready. You wanted to just let it, like, move on.
There was things I needed to tell you that you just didn't want to talk about.
And the times that you did, it was conf—I was fucking conf—I was so confusing.
That whole period was so confusing, knowing when and what I could and couldn't talk about.
I was tearing myself apart, knowing what I could and couldn't talk about because I didn't want to hurt you.
There is so much that you just haven't heard or listened to, or I've tried to spare you.
And you think, "I'm the fucking bad guy."
That you're the only one who's gotten hurt. I don't think you think that, but you're acting like it.
Probably because you're fucking deeply hurt yourself.
But I just—I think the reason you were deeply hurt—there's a whole bunch of them.
It seems like the biggest one is me saying no again. I think that's illegitimate.
I don't think it's a legitimate fucking reason to be hurt because you broke up with me too.
For good reasons. And you just ignored that.
You are the one who first raised it. You are the one who started the conversation.
You know, I asked—a couple nights before I asked you, "Are you going to break up with me?"
And you said, "I'm thinking about it."
You had so many problems in our relationship too.
And it feels like you're just ignoring that now.
That's the reason I'm not with you. That's the reason I'm not in Melbourne with you.
I wish I could be. So much. I wish I could be.
You acted like I don't care.
Fuck. I wish I was there with you so much.
Fuck. I miss you so much. Holy shit. I wish it could've worked.
Don't fucking tell me. I don't love you.
That's so cruel.
I tried. I tried so hard.
You're being so unfair.
I'd show your hand, but you're being so unfair.
Don't treat me like a bad guy.
[crying]
I'm sorry, Holly. I'm sorry. I never wanted to.
I was trying so hard. I hurt myself so much trying not to hurt you.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
[crying]
I tried. I tried so hard. I tried so hard.
It feels like you don't see that at all.
It's so much.
I don't, I don't, I actually don't know if I can get over the pain of you telling me that my needs were wrong and you dismissing me.
You're dismissing what I needed. I don't know if I can get over that. I haven't been able to this entire time. I've been trying to, but I haven't been able to.
You hurt me so much.
I haven't been able to feel your feelings because I'm hurt so badly and you not seeing everything I did hurts so badly.
I did so much for us, for you.
That's why I can't, that's why I can't sit with how much you did. I can't accept that because it feels like you don't see everything I did and that hurts so much.
And I don't know if I can get over that.
And that's part of why I said no.
I don't know if I can forgive you.
I'm going to tell you this. I need to tell you this.
I'm going to do my best to put myself in your shoes and take responsibility and apologize and do all of that better. I am going to tell you how much you've hurt me.
And that's part of why I said no.
And I haven't told you because I've been trying not to hurt you because that's all I've ever wanted to do.
It's for you to be okay and to not hurt you. It's all I've tried to do again and again and again and again.
I've put myself under so much pressure to try not to hurt you.
And because the last few months have been so confusing, I've been so stressed about what I can and can't say.
Because sometimes communicating with you feels like a fucking minefield.
Because I don't know what's okay to say sometimes.
Some things seem fine, some things hurt you so badly they don't think they're going to, and some things are fine at the time,
and then they hurt you so badly and you don't tell me or you do tell me the next day after I've left home and thought everything was okay.
You know, I felt comforted and safe and then you ripped that away.
Because you were hurt and that's fair.
But communicating with you was sometimes so hurtful and confusing.
I got so stressed and scared of hurting you.
That's why I didn't tell you.
And I'm going to tell you that I tried, when I write the email, I'm going to tell you that I tried to make the email just about you
and sitting with you and with your feelings and taking responsibility.
But that I need to tell you these things.
But I should ask for the permission to do that first because it's not your responsibility to know those things anymore.
And it's going to hurt and it's going to probably overwhelm you and just prolong all of this.
And maybe what we both need right now is space.
I have very good reasons for saying no to you.
None of which have to do with not loving you.
You have no idea how much I wish I was with you.
How disappointed I was that I couldn't come to Melbourne with you.
But I didn't because I'm tired of being hurt.
I'm tired of hurting myself in this relationship.
I'm tired of you hurting me and I'm tired of hurting myself.
Honestly I think I hurt myself more than you hurt me and I'm tired of that.
I can't just stop doing those things.
I can't turn those things off.
That's why the relationship won't work because I need to be able to work through those things first.
And that will take a long time.
They are really ingrained and I'm only just starting to notice them now.
It took you six years to get to the point you're at and you're still struggling.
It's probably going to take me fucking years.
I don't see how our relationship can work without me doing that work.
Because I'm going to crush myself otherwise.
I'm going to spend our entire relationship tearing myself to pieces all the fucking time.
I'm tired of doing that.
And I'm sorry I couldn't tell you some of these things apart from the trying not to hurt you and the confusion.
But I am incapable of doing it in a conversation.
I need to be able to do this.
I need days and days of stepping back from, of processing my emotions.
Stepping back from them.
I'm only just learning how to do that. I didn't know how to do that.
I'm only just learning how to do that now.
And it takes me days and days and days.
It takes me sometimes a week. You seem to fucking be able to do it in a day.
It takes me fucking weeks sometimes.
And I did not have the capacity to do that on top of everything else I was doing.
I was doing so much last year.
And I just feel like you don't see that at all.
You don't see how much I was doing.
And maybe I don't see how much you were doing because I was so deep in everything I was going through.
That's not fair to you.
That's not fair for you to not see what I did either.
And act like you're the one that did everything.
And again, all of that requires years of work to be able to do this kind of expression.
How is our relationship, how would our relationship have worked immediately
if I'd need so much work on myself
just to be able to be comfortable in our relationship and not tear myself to pieces?
Also, I wish you had a bit more self-control.
You seem to just say, "Oh, I'll take a couple of days and then take no days."
And rant at me.
If I did the same, I would have told you to get fucked so many times.
There's nothing wrong with your needs, but you need and deserve somebody who can meet your needs.
And I don't think that's me.
I wanted it. I thought it might be.
I wanted it to be so badly.
And I thought it might be because I saw parts of our relationship
where you kind of wanted the same thing as me.
You wanted that space. You wanted that time to yourself.
But that's not what happened in our relationship.
And I am done.
You need somebody who can give you that, and I don't think I can.
And I am not going to compromise on my needs anymore.
I spent so much of our relationship doing that, crushing myself down, crushing my needs,
because I felt bad about them.
I'm not going to do that. I'm never doing that again.
That means we do not work.
I wish that wasn't the case so badly.
But I can't see any way around that.
This isn't something I have to work on. This is me. This is who I am.
I can get probably, you know, with time, that tolerance stretches.
But that's just part of who I am.
I'm a person who needs miles of space.
It gets deeply enmeshed in the things I'm obsessed with.
And that's probably never going to change.
And it's time to accept that.
And I'm not going to be with somebody who can't accept that.
Who actively gets hurt, who I'm actively hurting by having those needs.
That's not fair on either of us.
And you said maybe low contact and long distance would work, but
one, how am I supposed to believe that that would work,
when that's not how you acted at any point in our relationship?
And that really made me very angry and very hurt that you thought you said that.
You didn't act that way at any point in our relationship.
How am I supposed to believe that you're going to suddenly be able to start doing that now?
And also, that to me sounds like you are crushing your own needs.
Maybe you just need to accept that you are the kind of person who needs a lot of time with people.
And I can't give you that.
And I'm never going to be able to give you that.
And I'm done crushing myself in the process of trying to make that work,
when it so clearly doesn't.
I need to be myself. I need to accept who I am.
I'm done feeling bad about that.
I feel very bad about how it made you feel.
But I'm never tearing myself to pieces like that again.
It's time to start standing up for myself and what I need.
We can't make it work.
We tried and tried. We were trying so hard.
And that's why we both agreed to break up.
Because we both got tired of trying and hurting ourselves in the process.
And you knew that.
That's why you decided to break up. You raised breaking up first.
You had very good reasons for doing that. Don't forget that.
And please don't treat me like the bad guy for standing up for what we both need.
I know it hurts. I don't want to lose you either.
But I do love you so much.
And that's why this whole time I've constantly been saying I hope that one day we can get back together.
Because maybe in a few years time after we are able to do this work, the work that we need to do,
that might change and there is a part of you that wants the same thing as me.
And maybe Melbourne will give that to you. It will awaken that part of you.
But as we both are now, we do not work.
Our needs hurt each other.
And that is like the biggest thing in a relationship that doesn't work.
And that's the one thing in a relationship that you cannot get past.
And you should not be stamping on your own needs.
I know it sucks. I know it hurts so much. But you need to stand up for yourself too.
And I think what you need is not me. As much as I wish that wasn't the case.
You need somebody who can give you what you need. And I don't think I can.
And I don't know if you can give me what I need.
It's like I have to convince you why we broke up.
When you also wanted to break up with me and you raised it first.
I now have to convince you of that and remind you, convince you that you should break up with me.
That's ridiculous.
You know, I wish so much that all of this wasn't the case.
But it is. And we cannot fight that. We can't keep rolling boulders uphill and stabbing each other with our quills.
We can't keep fighting reality.
We don't work. And we have hurt ourselves so much in the process of trying to make it work.
Neither of us wants that to be the case.
But it's time to accept that. And pardon me accepting that. As much as I hate it, it means trying to move on.
Which probably means not talking to each other for a while so that we can't actually move on.
I don't want to, I want to talk to you. I want you to be in my life.
Because I care so much about you.
I don't want this to be the end.
But I think we probably just need to leave each other alone for a good while and get over all of this.
Get through the pain of the break up. Because we're not, we're just constantly throwing ourselves back into it.
I'm sorry it's going to hurt.
I wish I could take that away. I wish you didn't have to feel that. All I've ever wanted is for you to be okay.
For you to not hurt. I've tried so hard not to hurt you.
And I hate that you're feeling this way. That you have to go through this.
But I don't think there's any way around it.
I'm sorry for that.
There was so much that was good in our relationship. So much.
But that one thing in the middle is the rotten core at the heart.
It doesn't matter how good everything else was.
That thing. That incompatibility between our needs means it just can't work.
That could just be different.
And I tried so hard for a while because I could see the possibility of that.
You know, you going away on your own.
Taking the car and driving off to the camp.
That's why part of why I'm so excited for Melbourne because I thought it would give you that.
It would let you lean into that side of yourself.
And maybe one day that will happen.
And we will be able to meet each other's needs but I don't think we can right now.
I wanted so much for none of this to be the case.
I wanted so much to come to Melbourne with you and explore it.
And fall in love all over again down there.
I wanted so badly to go to the UK with you.
Explore the world with you. Share the world with you.
I wanted that so badly.
And I was like, it's killing me.
That it can't be.
And any time it's not killing me it's because I'm burying myself in the day to day.
Just trying to live and get on with things and not have to deal with the pain.
And also I'm on drugs that blunt my emotions.
And I'm also very good at repressing my emotions.
It's 12.32 the next day. Friday the 2nd at lunchtime. I'm on my lunch break at the moment.
Gone for a walk.
And I just want to note something else down.
I'll do it in a minute.
It's about her seeing something I'm not.
Um...
What am I going to say?
Yeah.
Fucking hell.
Wait for this plane to stop.
I want to say to her that...
I'm sorry.
That her toot, like it seems like our needs
are not really all that compatible.
And that my need for space was a constant point of tension in our relationship.
And my need for space hurts you so often.
And quite often. And sometimes quite a lot.
And I'm so sorry for that. I'm so sorry for the pain that caused you.
But I'm also not going to...
Apologise for or feel bad about my needs anymore.
And I can't see how we can reconcile our needs.
Maybe you're seeing something I'm not.
But...
You know, you said maybe we could do a long... like a low contact relationship, but...
I don't know how I'm supposed to believe that that would work given the last three years.
And there's nothing wrong with what you want out of a relationship, what you need.
But...
Um...
Um...
Um...
And perhaps more importantly, it feels to me based on the last three years we had together,
you know, what I know of you, what I've experienced of you,
that that would be, you know, doing that would be you giving up on your needs.
And there's nothing wrong with your needs.
You should stand up for them.
I don't think I can meet your needs and I'm not sure you can meet mine.
I don't know if we can give each other what we need.
You need to stand up for yourself, and that's what I'm trying to do here.
As much as I wish that wasn't the case, as much as I wish we could be what we both needed from each other,
I'm just not sure we can be.
And maybe you can see something that I can't.
But I'm not willing to tear myself to pieces anymore.
I'm just trying to be something I'm not.
I just need to find the right way to say all of that to her, so that she doesn't feel attacked.
I just need her to recognise the truth.
That our needs don't seem to work for each other.
And part of the reason that I tried so hard for so long, lack of intense love aside,
part of the reason I tried so hard for so long is because I saw that there were elements of our relationship
where maybe our needs could align.
We could find a way that we would have similar needs.
In your search for independence, that gave me hope for that, but it never really materialised.
And that was the source, that was a large part of the source of that and the feeling,
the fact that I felt like I was fucking paying for everything and that you were dependent on me.
That was a large part of the source of my frustration with your not getting a job
and you not being able to drive yourself places.
That was definitely part of it.
I wish that none of this was the case, I wish we could just work,
but we have been trying to make it work for the last three years and getting hurt constantly.
We've been hurting so much, particularly last year.
Last year was us both trying to do our best and hurting each other so much in the process
because our needs don't align and we were both trying so hard to make that work.
And that part of you, that once independence, it never really materialised for three fucking years.
That's why I said, "I do love you so much."
And that's why I hoped that one day, maybe after we worked on each other and ourselves,
we could get back together at some point.
That's part of why I was so excited for Melbourne because I thought Melbourne would maybe ignite that part of yourself
because it's a part that was absolutely there.
You just needed to find it and I think Melbourne is how you will find it.
Living for yourself on your own, doing your own thing, making your own decisions,
not living under anybody else's thumb, I think that will lead to it in a lot of ways.
But I'm so excited for you for that, regardless of whether I'm involved.
But deep down, all that stuff might change, but I think you're still going to probably need the same level of contact
and time together that is just not compatible with what I need.
There's nothing wrong with what you need, wanting to talk as much as you do.
My needs made you feel rejected and unloved, but there's nothing wrong with my needs.
Your needs made me feel smothered and I don't know, other words.
And there's nothing wrong with your needs, but we need to be with people, someone.
We each need to find someone, be with someone where those will align.
And I'm just not sure that's us, as much as I really, really don't want that to be the fucking case and never have.
That's why I'm so stubborn, because I love you so fucking much and I wanted that to work so fucking badly,
but that's only so much we can fucking fight against reality.
And maybe I'm wrong, maybe there's something I'm not seeing that you can.
But based on everything you've been saying, it feels like you've just kind of ignored all of that.
You've just given in to your hurt at being rejected, despite the fact that you also chose to break up with me for these reasons.
At least I thought it was for these reasons.
And I will probably always love you and I hope that we can be part of each other's lives in some capacity for as long as we can.
All I want of you is joy and happiness and for you to be okay and for you to get everything you need.
I will always, always regret that I couldn't make that be me,
but I'm just not going to crush myself anymore and feel bad about what I need.
I'm done with that.
Regardless of what happens, whether you want to ever have me in your life at any point, in any capacity,
I think we both need space and time away from each other to move on.
Because we just keep ripping this wound open again and again and again and it's, you know,
the whole reason we fucking left out ended our relationship was so we didn't have to deal with this shit.
I know you're trying to move on, so I think it's time to do that.
That's all I can say. I'm sorry. Here's things as I see them, finally in full.
Here's things as I see them. I wish they weren't that way.
I love you and I hope that we can know each other in some capacity.
Another couple of things I want to tell Holly. I've been thinking about her again a lot today,
which makes sense given today is her first day in Melbourne.
I'd like to tell her that I just want her to know how much I do love her and how much this hurts
and how much I didn't want this to be the case.
And that I understand if this too much hurt for us to ever know each other,
but that I really hope that she's so important to me and I really hope that we can,
if we can make it work, that we can find our way into each other's lives again at some point.
But that for now, I think what we both need is to move on as much as we can, to have space for a while.
And that if you, I don't know if I should say anything about not feeling like I need to be doing anything,
making grand gestures, but if, if, if at some point
we want to, we get to the point where we can, I would love to have her in my life in some capacity.
And if you want to leave it in my hands, then when I'm ready in probably quite a while's time,
when I've moved on enough, that when we've moved on enough that just seeing each other doesn't tear this wound open again
and hurt us so much, I'll come down to Melbourne and see her.
But until then, I miss you. I wish this wasn't happening.
And I wish you so much love and joy. I hope you can find what you need.
And until then, have an amazing life.
You deserve to be with someone who can give you what you need.
You know, who can, who can be with you in the way that you need.
Who wants to spend all their time with you.
It's not me. I appear to be the kind of, a kind of person who needs so much space.
Being on my own for 30 years.
That aloneness got inside me. That space got inside me. Loneliness got inside me.
And I don't know how to be any other way and I think in some ways I might be able to be more flexible,
but my needs are never not going to be needing a vast amount of space.
That's never going to change. And I'm tired of fighting that.
You deserve, you need someone and you deserve someone who can give you what you want.
Who doesn't, who can be with you in a way that doesn't hurt you.
And I need someone I can be with who my needs aren't going to hurt so that I don't hurt myself.
Who's, to be with somebody whose needs don't, I don't know what the right term for it is.
Crush me or, it's not crush me, it's because I do it to myself.
Because I still care, I don't want to hurt you. I need to be with somebody who can accept my needs for space.
And I don't think that's you. We tried to make that work for three years and it didn't.
And that's why we broke up. And we both deserve somebody. We both deserve to have our needs met.
Because you're such a wonderful person. You deserve everything good in the world.
I'm so, so sorry it can't be me. I wish so much it could be.
I wish so much that it could be. It wasn't for lack of trying. We tried so hard to make this work.
Yes, we probably could have tried harder but we did everything we could with the capacity we had.
And the thing is, that capacity probably isn't going to change that much. Both of us kind of struggle with life.
And we did the best we could with that. We tried as hard as we could. We ground ourselves down to try and make it work.
We put ourselves through so much pain to try and make it work.
And there was reason for that because there was so much love and there was so much tenderness and there was so much that was good.
But that cannot, that can't win against two people whose needs are just fundamentally different.
Whose needs hurt each other.
As much as neither of us wishes that was the case.
I will always, always regret that we couldn't make it work.
I'm repeating myself here but I'm trying to get down the words that I wanted to say here in the email.
I want to end it with something like, when enough time, when I'm ready, when you're ready, when we're ready, when enough time is, when we've healed enough,
we've moved on enough that we can see each other without tearing this wound open again and hurting ourselves so much. I'll come down to Melbourne and see you.
But that may not be for a while.
Because this is a very deep wound for both of us.
And it's going to take a while to heal, to get to the point where it won't burst open immediately.
But I also understand if the wound is too deep and the pain is too, there's now too much pain and you don't want to see me again.
I understand.
And it may happen that when we think we've healed and we try and we see each other again and it still just happens straight away and we hurt each other, there's no way to not hurt.
In which case maybe we need to give up on that idea.
But for now I think we need to just give ourselves, each other the space and time to heal.
So until then, goodbye, I love you and go so well.
And I will be thinking of you.
