I want to quickly talk about two things I've realised.
I can't remember what the second one is so it might just be one.
It's that I've just realised that I haven't really talked to anybody about everything I'm feeling about.
"Holly, mum and dad, mum a little bit but that's about it."
I haven't talked to any of my friends, I've just put on a brave face and waved things off.
Like I tend to do and I realise I don't feel like there is anybody I can talk to about this stuff.
It was Holly, Holly was the person I felt like I could talk to about these things.
And I think she felt the same.
So I think we probably just dumped all of our stuff on each other.
Of course we did because we neither of us felt like there was anybody else we could talk to
and we felt like we'd found someone we could do that with.
I can't remember what the other thing was, it was also, actually if anything more important,
but I can't remember what it was now.
I think it's maybe that I feel like I failed, that I was weak, that I'm weak and that I wasn't strong enough
to make our relationship work, I wasn't strong enough to give Holly what she needed.
I feel like this, you know, it was like a bit overwhelming, it was, yeah, when I'm overwhelmed or stressed
and sometimes just like when I'm emotional at all because that kind of does,
that it like verges into overwhelm for me being emotions,
I often find I want to be alone and miles away from everybody else and just kind of retreat into this cocoon.
And I think that's, and the thing is I'm always fucking overwhelmed and it's something,
one of the things I feel increasingly shitty about and guilty and weak and self-hating about, ashamed,
that I feel like I can't cope with life.
And I feel like last year confirmed that.
And I feel like I lost our relationship because of it.
I feel like the breakup just confirmed all of that, confirmed some of the things I was afraid of.
And also explains part of why I felt the way I did, you know.
I want Holly to understand that, that need to be alone is all-consuming sometimes.
And that I feel overwhelmed all the fucking time.
I need her to understand that.
Needed her to understand that.
And that overwhelm and the fear of the overwhelm is why I'm living at Mum and Dad's place.
And it's why I care so, why I'm so stressed about money and why I'm so like,
I don't know what the term is stressed and like insistent or something,
you know, and like striving so hard to reach these financial goals is because I know
that I can't live the rest of my life like this.
And that full-time work contributes so heavily to my overwhelm.
And I'm desperate to find a way out and the only way I can think to do that is fire basically.
Because I don't know what else to do because I can't fucking stomach the,
I cannot cope with the idea of having to live like this for the rest of my life.
Another 60 years.
And that's why financial security and saving money and spending wisely and all of that is so important to me.
Part of why, anyway.
I don't know if it's a single thing, if it's one singular thing or if it's multiple things
that kind of present similarly or feed into each other like, you know, wanting,
expecting too much out of life or wanting to do all these things or, you know,
troubles with vulnerability, not really having the skills to deal with,
emotional distress, self-regulation, all that kind of stuff.
I don't know what it is.
If it's one thing, multiple things.
But I think this overwhelm, this time overwhelm and some emotional overwhelm
and that feeling overwhelming, being unable to cope and the fear of it.
And the reactions, emotional and physical reactions it gives me and the ways I react to it,
like the behavior, like wanting to retreat.
I think that's the biggest problem in my life.
That's what all of my problems kind of circle around in some ways.
You know, my boundaries, my problems with boundaries contribute to that.
Yeah, it all kind of circles around that same thing.
It's the thing at the core of all my problems.
This fucking overwhelm.
This overwhelm with life.
This feeling of in-keep ability and being unable to cope and that life's too much.
And yeah, I don't know, it's hard to...
I don't know.
But it's been the core problem for a long time.
