It's 4.29pm on Wednesday the 28th of June.
This is kind of a seaver.
I've noticed that I'm having some feelings and thoughts about some things and I want
to note them down.
Some kind of social dynamics.
So, at work at the moment, the specific situation that prompted this is that I had a conversation,
not a conversation, I had a quick chat to Tian because Kavisha, Miranda and I are...
Tomorrow is Thursday, it's the day that we do training in the afternoon.
My brain's fucking dissolved at the moment.
Fuck, I went the wrong one.
Kavisha, Miranda and I talked about...
Tomorrow's training, we're going to spend two hours in the afternoon doing training.
Miranda, Kavisha and I, initiated by Kavisha, talked about how it seems like a bit of a
waste of time at month-end, particularly fucking financial year-end.
Yes, we talked about, and we've got a shitload of deal costs, we've got like 400 deals to
cost.
We talked about how maybe we should give training the miss this week, focus on getting
deal costing done and do...
Cold?
Yeah, and get deal costing done and like the training tomorrow is about deal costing and
then skip deal costing training for this week and get back into it next week.
I'm noticing that there seems to be a bit of a dynamic where Kavisha, Stan, sorry me,
Stan and Tian, sorry me, Stan and Miranda and increasingly recently Kavisha are kind
of like a group, like we're talking about, we make jokes together, we talk to each other.
Oh god, it's like so hard to make a point of training for these fucking months, this is
fucking nonsense I think, this fucking thing.
But anyway, so yeah, and it's just feeling like the admin team is kind of turning into
a bit of a click that Tian is being excluded from, which I don't really like, I don't
like that dynamic, especially given that our meeting is raising that she feels like we're
not talking to each other enough and given that she's friends with, she's, Tian's her
best friend and Tian doesn't talk to the rest of us all that much, or maybe we don't talk
to her that much, it kind of makes me think that maybe she's basically talking about us
talking to Tian there, I don't like that, that thing, that we have a complex conversation
without including Tian, so I tried to talk to Tian about it, I basically said hey look,
Tian, Kavisha, Kavisha, Miranda and I are thinking about talking to Brett about skipping
the fuel costing training a bit, they kept skipping training tomorrow and getting work
done for the work end and then getting back to training this week and she said, well it
sounds like you guys have already voted, it's not my decision, so basically what you want
is to do what you want, kind of basically saying that I do what you want because I'm not included,
he didn't include me, sort of thing, and I was asking well, what do you want, would you
like to be doing training? And she said yes because I don't know how to do deal costing.
God that's killing my brain. And she was pretty, I mean she's just kind of in a fucking bad
mood all the time at the moment, every time we talk. She's just kind of been quite unpleasant
to interact with recently.
Yeah, there's just some social dynamics going on here that I don't like, it feels exclusionary
but then it also feels like, yeah, and for some reason I feel like it's my job to fix,
like I feel like I need to fix it, like I need to try and include Tian or, you know,
I feel like I need to try and talk to Bri about what's going wrong or have a conversation
with Tian. I'm feeling a little bit like maybe Tian feels like she's being bullied. You know,
some of the jokes I've made which, yeah, I don't know, haven't been mean jokes at all,
they just have kind of joked with her at all. I guess they've kind of been jokes at her
expense really. And I do kind of, I'm kind of thinking maybe I should sit down with her
and say hey, Tian, you made a comment the other day, you may have just been joking but
I just want to check in and see are you feeling like you're being bullied. You know, I've
realised that I'm, a few of the jokes I'm making are kind of unintentionally I'm making
them at your expense. And I apologise if it's making you uncomfortable. If it is, please
tell me. You know, just have that emotionally mature kind of conversation basically. And
I feel like because I kind of possess some of those skills and I value these things,
I think that's part of it, I value some of this stuff, I value demonstrating emotional
intelligence and I value like trying to include people. So I think that's part of it. I feel
like I'm being, I feel this internal push to do those things combined with this like fear
about doing it. So it's like, I don't know, but it's also part of me feels like, I think
I also, there's a bit of me part of me that feels like it's kind of, it's my, for some
reason, it's my job to fix this stuff. To make everybody like each other and to make
every, I think part of it is to make people like me. Because I don't think Tiana, I get
the feel, I get the sense that Tiana and Brie don't like me. Which has been contributing
to my sense of unease at work. Yeah, just I think really, things seem to get a lot worse
once Marina joined, I have to continue, I have to say, because I think her personality
style, she just, she's very, she's gossipy. She talks shit and she is gossipy, she's lovely,
she's a nice person and I like her, but she clashes with Tiana and she's very gossipy.
And I feel like I have started to gossip more since, which has mostly been me trying,
me getting really fucking frustrated and me expressing my frustration. But I, yeah, it's
hard to, that and professionalism is hard to mix together. Yeah, I just, I feel like
I need to, I don't know, but I feel like I'm worried that I'm just, it's part of it is
that I just want them to like me and I don't want to, I don't want people to not like me
kind of thing. And I'm finding it, a lot of my thoughts at work being about it and I'm
interpreting a lot of what Bri and Tiana's mannerisms and attitude as them being angry
at me or annoyed or not liking me. And I need to be okay with that, like people don't have
to fucking like me. I don't have to spend my life trying to get people to like me. It's
just more important things. But it's hard because I also value treating other people
with respect and kindness and including them and having, displaying emotional intelligence
and I feel like particularly after the last year with spending my last couple years with
Holly, I feel like I've learned some much better emotionally intelligent skills and I feel
like I'm maybe not practicing them as much. I feel like I should be and I want to be doing
those things. I've been thinking quite a lot about seeing down with Bri and being like
"Hey, look Bri", having an emotionally mature conversation with her and saying "Hey, look
Bri, I'm getting a sense, I may be mistaken but I'm getting a sense that you are frustrated
or annoyed or angry with me and are unhappy with my work. I may just be reading it something
that's not there but if that is the case, is there something I'm doing that you would
like me to change?" It could just be their mannerisms but yeah, I don't know. It's hard
to separate the need to be liked with kind of like living up to my own values, I guess,
because I do value those things, not necessarily being liked. I mean I do want to be liked
obviously, I don't know if I value being liked. I think maybe I do. I think that's maybe
a part of my identity is like me. I'm a nice person. Yeah, it's a bit of a challenge
to that. I clearly don't. There's just a lot of fucking not communicating in this workplace.
A lot of bad communication and a lot of, yeah, it's a fucking unhealthy environment. It's
not a good social environment I think. It's a really bad environment for communicating.
Anyway, it's the first time I've really kind of experienced this. It's interesting. Kind
of interesting to experience this for the first time.
[END OF RECORDING]
