I'm trying to think a bit about what is making me say... I mean, I'll start with this anyway
because people know I don't think it's actually necessary, but it's 4.38pm on
Wednesday the 21st, I believe, 21st of June. My birthday in three days.
Driving home from work, I was just thinking about the financial situation and some of the things
Holly said and my feelings around a few things and trying to sort out where my feelings of
her being unfair are coming from and I'm also extremely fucking tired so this is quite difficult.
I wish I was recording while I had those thoughts because now they're gone.
Yeah, I just... I had a clear hard boundary around... I think it maybe... I started off with
me thinking... yeah that's right, it started off with me thinking about the fact that
because I was driving past Victoria Park, thinking about how the last time I was there
I was going there because we were going to be moving to Melbourne soon and I was like
wanting to soak up a bit of Brisbane before I left and how I felt at the time and like
kind of like a bit of sadness about leaving Brisbane but then the excitement, real like
fucking actually really deep excitement about going to Melbourne.
And I don't know what she's talking about, what I said that made her... that directly
contradicted me wanting to go to Melbourne and she said I heard that you wanted to stay in Brisbane
and save money and be with your friends like yeah after we broke up
or you know maybe beforehand for a little bit while we sorted out because we couldn't
be together physically, we couldn't stay together because you lost your money and I wasn't going
to fucking pay. It's like I was not going to... I had a fucking clear hard boundary around paying
for us to go down to Melbourne. I just... I made it very clear that I was not going to do that
and there was no way for us to do... for us to get down. You couldn't... we had multiple
fucking conversations about you not being able to save the money to do it while we were living
together at my parents place and I don't know like... so I think we were talking about either
you going down first or us pretending to break up and you going down first or moving out somewhere
else. We were trying to explore all these different options and it's like you just don't fucking
remember any of that. I said I was going to stay in... I wanted to... I'd stay and save a bit for a
bit. I think what I said was I'd stay and save a bit. I said once we'd broken up I said I'm... look
I'm not going to move down to Melbourne for a friend because that's what we are now. I wouldn't
move down to Melbourne for a friend. You know like I'm not moving down to Melbourne to move down to
Melbourne. I'm moving down to Melbourne to be with you. Not that I don't want to go to Melbourne.
Like I'd rather be with you in Melbourne than I would be with you here.
I'm really excited to do this but I'm not going to leave job security, money security,
my friends, my family to move down to Melbourne to be with somebody I've just... to go down to Melbourne
to hang around with somebody I've just broken up with. Like that's fucking nonsense, unsensical.
And before that we couldn't work out... like you weren't... you did not... you were not going to get
a job. You didn't... you were adamant you refused to get a job while you were here and I was not
going to pay for us to get down to Melbourne. I just... I just wasn't going to do it. We were
going halves or I wasn't... or we had to fucking work something else out and there was no way for
you to go halves because you weren't going to get a job and your money was like fucking nothing while
we were together. And now somehow that's turned into I never wanted to go to Melbourne.
I don't understand.
And I don't know what she's referring to.
And like financially that fucking... our relationship was so unequal.
I was making less money than you for most of... like yes I had savings, they fucking disappeared.
If my dad hadn't given me ten thousand dollars I'd have nothing... I would have nothing. I'd have no savings.
And a bunch of that went on to our relationship because I paid for a lot of stuff.
I lent you three hundred dollars so we could go to Sydney.
I fucking paid for the rent for a week because you were really irresponsible with your money and didn't have any money left.
I paid for the administration fee for us moving out. I paid for the fucking couch.
To be honest I paid for the couch and the fridge. I paid for most of us for the stuff us moving in.
Yes you paid back a bunch of it but most of it... a bunch of it... the couch you didn't at all.
You owe me like two thousand dollars worth of shit.
And I was feeling fucking taken advantage of and I wasn't going to pay again for us to get down to Melbourne
because I know I was not going to get that fucking money back.
And I was tired of paying for shit in our relationship.
I was tired of the financial inequality of our relationship.
Things were feeling really fucking unequal.
I was paying for a lot of shit. I was doing... I was fucking driving you everywhere.
You know, I didn't feel like I could rely on you.
Like if I fucking broke my leg or had a heart attack I didn't feel like I could rely on you to be able to pay for things
or to drive me to the fucking hospital.
And you expect me to just fucking jump in a car and go down to Melbourne with you.
Especially after we've just fucking broken up.
Like what the fuck are you talking about?
You are being so fucking unfair.
It's like you're hurt and have just forgotten all of this.
And every time I tried to talk to you about the money side of things you just fucking collapsed.
It was impossible to talk to you about almost anything to do with money.
Because you'd get so fucking stressed out immediately and would get incredibly defensive.
I tried to talk to you so many times about paying me back for things or doing the fucking car.
And you would like bite my fucking head off every time.
What am I supposed to do?
And then nothing would happen with it.
It was six fucking months between you using my car and then you never fucking cleaned it.
That was my requirement for you taking the car.
You were so unreliable.
I'm sorry but you are fucking unreliable.
I did not feel like I could rely on you in a bunch of ways.
And if I tell you that you're going to be incredibly hurt and it's going to fucking reaffirm everything that you think about yourself
and you're going to take any fucking thing I have to say and turn it into like why you're a piece of shit
and get incredibly hurt and defensive and fucking rip me apart.
What am I supposed to do?
I don't want to fucking expose myself to that.
I was trying to talk about this shit in person and you kept not wanting to do it.
You were like I'm tired of this.
It was so fucking confusing what we could and couldn't talk about.
And I was getting really fucking overwhelmed because we'd been fucking...
We said we've talked about everything there is to talk about.
Well clearly we fucking haven't.
We haven't at all.
You just don't want to talk about this shit anymore which is I understand.
I also don't want to talk about this shit anymore but we want to move forward in any fucking capacity.
We need to talk about it.
And then when we had that one fucking meeting where it was completely fucking 180 and said I actually made a mistake.
I didn't actually want to break up.
And we're like trying to get back together without actually saying that.
Rather than like making any fucking arguments or listening to anything or trying to talk through anything.
You just took me saying no without like...
I was trying to explain.
Barely could.
Just kidding, okay.
I was fucking emotionally overwhelmed so I couldn't really explain.
I didn't want to hurt you.
We're struggling to like put it into words because that's what happens.
And then the next time I saw you it was like no I've made my mind up.
I know what's happening.
It's like you got hurt because I said no because you fucking 180'd.
Like what the fuck.
And then you said that you were hurt because you were always getting fucking rejected.
And then I tried to talk to you about how that means that we are not compatible.
Because me trying to stand up for my needs makes you feel rejected.
And that's part of why you seemed like you were reacting so bad when I said no this time.
And then you fucking got up and you cracked the shits at me for that.
I can't fucking wait.
I can't do anything.
No matter what I say.
What am I supposed to fucking do?
Fuck me.
In regards to the money like I don't feel like I can rely on you because you weren't, you kind of weren't reliable.
You said you would do things.
You said you would pay me back.
You said you'd fucking clean the car.
You didn't do any of that shit.
How am I supposed to think that you're just going to, that's just going to instantly, that's just going to change.
How am I supposed to trust that I can rely on you?
When you didn't, when I couldn't.
You didn't do the things you said you were going to do.
To be fair with the couch, yes, we talked multiple times about that.
That's definitely partly also on me because you talked about having like a fucking, I don't know, like I sent you the fucking information.
And then you lost your shit at me because I'd said like the next time I tried to talk to you about it, you're like, oh, it overwhelms me.
I can't deal with it.
Well, then what do you want me to fucking do?
Yes, we talked about doing up like a contract thing and like putting it on the fridge and I, that is, I was going to print that and I didn't and that's my fuck up.
But it's not, you know, the rent, the fucking, the administration fee.
It's not my fucking responsibility to chase you up for the money.
How's that supposed to make me fucking feel?
Like chasing my girlfriend for shit that she owes me?
That she said she's going to pay me back for?
It makes me feel like a fucking tax collector, like a piece of shit.
But then you just didn't do anything about it.
Despite the fact that you were making more money than me for almost all of last year while I was fucking grinding myself down to the fucking bone studying and working.
And I look, I know you were not just sitting around the house.
You were dealing with PTSD and you would deal with a great deal of fucking mental overwhelm.
And it's not like you weren't just doing nothing.
I understand that.
But it's also pretty hard for me to fucking take the fact that you were making more money than me while I was fucking busting my fucking ass.
And you know, in that time you didn't pay back any of the shit that you owed me.
And then like, it's like you don't see any of the shit I was doing in that period.
I was fucking falling to pieces.
I was so fucking overwhelmed.
So I was trying to fucking give you what you needed and keep everything together and make everything fucking look after you.
And it's like you don't see any of that shit.
And you're treating me like the fucking bad guy.
And I'm sorry, no, I don't see some of the shit that you did because all I can see is all the shit that I did that it seems like you've never fucking paid attention to.
So, no, I can't, I do not feel like I can fucking rely on you.
You said you were going to get a job like 20 times.
You know, you said, I'm sorry, you came to me and said, I'm sorry, Michael, I have not been very smart with my money.
I fucked up.
I can't afford to pay the rent this week.
I'm going to fix this.
I will go get a job.
That never happened.
Again and again and again and again.
Like, I know you're struggling, you struggle to work and that's fine.
But I can't keep fucking doing this.
I understand, I mean, I understand it as much as I can understand that.
Not at all in the same way, not to the same extent, but I also struggle with work.
I do understand to an extent.
And I want you to be able to do the thing that you want to do and feel comfortable and happy to do that.
I don't want to push you into work, but I can't keep being the fucking money pouch for this fucking relationship and then not have you, you know, say you're going to pay things back and then not do it.
Yes, it builds a fucking lot of resentment.
On top of all the other shit that I felt like that I was doing.
You are really shit with me, you are, honestly, you are, of anybody I know, you are probably the worst with your fucking money.
You are so fucking bad at it.
You are incredibly bad with your money.
And I'm fucking tired of dealing with that shit.
And I'm fucking tired of having to fucking front for things.
You need to get your shit together.
I know that's not easy to do.
And I want to support you through that to get there.
But I can't keep fucking doing this.
And that just built up to a point that, that with Centrelink and everything else that was happening, it was just, and particularly with the fucking, the differences, the wanting to talk all the time and me needing so much fucking space.
Me tearing myself to fucking pieces.
And you're just treating me like a fucking...
You're being so unfair.
And I know you're really hurt and you're probably not seeing any of this because you're hurt.
But that doesn't fucking matter.
I constantly fucking felt like I was under pressure in our relationship.
To do better, to do things differently.
You know, like, I needed to fucking read all these feminist books and...
I felt like I was under a lot of pressure.
From you. I felt like you were putting pressure on me.
And some of that was pressure I was putting on myself, definitely.
But some of it definitely wasn't.
You were putting pressure on me.
Which, you know, and I think I was probably doing the same to you and that means...
That's another strike as to why we don't fucking work.
Which you just refuse to see.
And they're treating me like I'm the fucking bad guy because I'm saying no.
So don't fucking tell me you were always ready to have the hard conversations.
That's fucking bullshit! You weren't at all!
Yes, you were more ready to have hard conversations than me.
But in that last fucking few months, in that last month or two...
There was a lot of fucking times where you were like,
"I feel like we've talked about this already. We've said everything there is to say."
"No, we haven't! I have a lot more to say!"
"Clearly, so do you, because this shit that you haven't fucking told me!"
You know, and you kept saying, like, "Tell me before we're going to talk about this."
And then I'd ask and be like, "Yeah, this is probably the best time, but after this, it might have to be it."
Kind of thing. I don't think... I'm not sure that's exactly what you said, but it was that kind of sentiment.
Like, "Now or never" kind of thing, and I can't keep doing this.
Which I understand, because I felt the fucking same. But don't say that, and then fucking tell me...
You know, "Why didn't you tell me about this when you had your fucking letter?" or...
Fuck you, alright?
There was a lot still to talk about, and you had just as much to do with us not fucking talking...
Honestly, I think you had more to do with us not fucking talking about things.
Don't fucking tell me that, and say that, and then tell me that...
Fuck.
Fuck me.
Don't say that, and then tell me that you were always ready to have the hard conversations, because that's bullshit.
You were not.
Particularly in the last month or two.
After we broke up.
If you want to get back together, we are going to have to have some fucking...
A lot of long, extremely fucking painful conversations that are very frank.
Because there's a lot of shit I don't want to fucking deal with anymore.
That we need to fucking talk about.
We need to air all of that shit.
And that's going to be a long, very extremely fucking painful process for both of us.
And I don't think either of us really wants to go through that.
But I'm not fucking getting back together unless we do that.
And I'm not just...
We can't just fucking pretend that none of this shit happened.
And to be honest, after all of this, I'm not really sure I want to get back together.
I don't want things to end like this between us.
But I don't know if I want to get back together after all of this.
There's part of me that does, definitely.
But...
I'm also not doing it without some fucking serious couples counselling.
And don't give me this shit about couples counselling.
It's just for me.
That is utter fucking bullshit.
Yes, I know you are hurt. That I didn't go get therapy.
You did make it clear that you needed me to.
And I didn't do that. I was intending on acting on it.
I didn't. I'm sorry for that.
That is a weakness of mine that I've succumbed to a lot.
It's something I'm trying to work on.
But it's probably not really going anywhere.
It's probably going to keep happening because it's part of my overwhelm.
But don't fucking tell me that the therapy was just about me.
That is utter bullshit.
Yes, maybe the last two sessions where it was just about skiing.
Where we were talking. Like the last session where we talked about my schema stuff.
Yeah, maybe.
Maybe the session before.
Just because you've done schema work before doesn't mean you've done it in the context of a fucking relationship.
That helped us in a lot of ways.
And you were full of shit. Fuck you.
I don't want to be angry at you.
But I also can't turn it off.
And I honestly probably shouldn't.
Something I want to talk to the therapist about.
Is that I feel like I couldn't do it.
That feeling of I couldn't do it in our relationship.
My relationship with Ollie.
I feel like it came true.
But I wasn't strong enough.
That big part of why it ended was that it was too much.
It was too much for me.
And that feeling of weakness that comes with that.
That I wasn't strong enough to support Ollie through the things he needed to support through there.
I couldn't be there for the ways in which he needed because I didn't have the capacity.
I was too overwhelmed.
And that was a recurring thing.
That feeling of failure and weakness.
I feel like I failed.
In a bunch of ways.
You know, like...
She was being vulnerable.
At asking for my help.
She needed my help. She needed my support.
To get through what she was dealing with.
And her fears around work.
And I couldn't give it to her.
I feel like I failed her so badly.
I felt like I was weak.
And...
I feel like it just confirmed all the things I would worry about myself.
That I'm weak and easily... and a coward and easily overwhelmed.
And I can't deal with life.
Because I feel like that's what happened in our relationship.
