I think part of the reason things are so difficult with Holly is that I'm still trying to maintain
the relationship. It's not a clean break. It's not just we're no longer in each other's
lives and we move on. We're still in contact constantly. We're still thinking about each
other all the time. I'm trying to maintain the relationship. I'm trying to, you know,
a part of why I feel so bad, it felt so bad the other days because it felt like it was
about to be the last time I'd ever talked to her. That really actually saying, properly
saying goodbye, you know, seeing each other and knowing that that's going to be the last
time ever that we will be in contact is so painful that I just won't let go of it because
I still love her so much and because it was not a clean break up. Well, I mean, it's as
clean as it could be, I guess, but it wasn't like one of us, or the other of us, has done
something terrible and although after what she said the last time, I'm starting to feel
like she thinks I did, to be honest, but I'm still trying to maintain that relationship.
I'm still trying to in some ways make her love me. I can't just end it with her thinking
that I'm a bad person or that I've done something wrong. It's like I have this need to, for
her to understand what she did to me and how she made me feel as well, so it's, you know,
she doesn't feel like I was a terrible person, but it's also like I'm also trying to maintain
the relationship so there is some possibility of us reconnecting. I think I'm in some way
still holding onto that hope that we might get together again at some point, which is
probably a bad idea. I can't just leave it as it is and say goodbye. I keep trying to
make things better or make things work or fix things or whatever before saying goodbye
and that just seems to keep making things worse. We're still so much a part of each other's
lives. We're still directing each other to thoughts and decisions and opinions and we're
still spending so much emotional energy. I think she is on me, but she's trying not to.
I am on her too, spending so much emotional energy on her. I think she's probably doing
the same. She's said this much and the only way for that to stop is to accept that it's
over because I don't think either of us entirely have yet and I think for her, her way to do
that is maybe to think that I've rejected her when it was a mutual decision. I can't
just let her think that I've hurt her or I'm a bad person and leave it at that, even to
save her and her feelings and to help her with her feelings. It's like I can't let go of
that. What we both need is just not any contact and just move on. It's the only way to heal.
So I need to send this email, which I'm avoiding doing because I don't... Partly I have a
lot of painful feelings around all of this and I don't want to face them right now, which
means I'm kind of not doing the thing I feel like I need to be doing and I'm kind of distracting
myself and not really enjoying that thing. I'm not really enjoying playing games all
that much, although part of that is also just my inability to just sit and fucking do the
thing I enjoy. I'm going to pause it for a second. I'm not really enjoying playing Diablo.
There's this something sitting at the edge of my awareness eating at me, which is I think
partly this. Partly it's also just my inability to just sit down and fucking do the things
I enjoy. I always feel like I need to be doing something else more productive, something more
in line with what I think is important, but like working on my game or working on philosophy
or reading philosophy etc etc. I'm never fucking happy. I never let myself just do the thing
I want to do. I'm avoiding thinking about Holly and thinking about what I want to say
later because this is so painful, but in doing that I'm also, it's like not letting me, it
being there and like it's something I feel like I have to do and I can't really move
on without doing it. So until I do it, it's like distracting, it's at the back of my mind
distracting me from everything else. So I haven't really been able to really sink in
and enjoy what I've been doing today. On top of my normal level of that, it's a lot worse,
but then I'm also avoiding doing the thing because it hurts. It's incredibly painful
to think about. I'm really heavily avoiding reading Holly's email again because it's so
painful to see that level of hurt and anger from her. And also I don't feel comfortable
doing it with Mum and Dad around at all. I don't feel comfortable getting emotional,
crying, feeling like I can't do it until they're gone, until they're gone for the weekend
and I have the whole house to myself. Because I know that this thing, honestly I just don't
feel comfortable having emotions or thinking about my emotions or feeling my emotions or
really delving into this stuff around other people in general. I don't, I feel so uncomfortable
being vulnerable around my parents and having really emotional conversations with them or
having them know about my emotions. So I don't feel capable of really delving into this and
really, because I know it's going to be probably an all day thing of jumping into that vat
of fucking emotional acid. Reading Holly's email, getting my thoughts down, it's going
to fucking hurt. I'm going to be crying and I don't want to do that around my parents.
But I also feel pressured to do it because I want to get it done so I can move on and
that so she isn't waiting for me and that so she can move on with her time in Melbourne
without waiting for me to send this thing to her. Waiting for the penny to drop kind
of thing. I just kind of want to get it done and move on so I can both move on. Fuck it.
I'm in emotional pain at the moment.
Boom.
