It's 6.54am on Thursday the 1st of June. This is my SEVA for the day. My way to work as
always. There's been some pretty big happenings over the last two or three days.
Holly texted me on Tuesday after saying that she wasn't going to text me again. She texted
me on Tuesday and said there's so much here that she was just trying to tell me that she
had been thinking of me, that Sydney was full of reminders of us, and that it was beautiful
there and that I would have loved it. And then she asked me, "Can I ask how are you?"
And I freaked out and messaged her back, all this stuff saying, "I want to tell you, I
want to hear your voice, I want to call you and talk about it, but I don't know if we
should."
I just stopped for a second. Basically it ended up with I sent a whole bunch of texts
where I was freaking the fuck out basically and I was saying, "Look, I don't know if
we should be, I want to tell you everything, but I don't know if that's good for us anymore."
And then I sent a bunch of other texts that I can't even remember, they're just emotional
explosions. And then she sent a text back saying that was quite derisive, saying, "I
can't make you love me."
Basically she sent a text saying, "I can't make you love me, I'm going to leave," or
something. I actually can't remember anything other than that, "I can't make you love me."
And I hyper-focused on that and said, "I don't understand, you can't make me love you, what
do you mean?"
And then she sent a big text, she said, "This is going to hurt, is that okay?" I thought
that was clear, but maybe I need to explain it.
"Is this going to hurt, is that okay?" And then she sent a big text saying all sorts
of stuff like, "I bent myself backwards to make this relationship work, I felt rejected
constantly, I tried so many different ways recently to make out, to try and make our
relationship, to start our relationship again and you rejected every single one of them
and I'm not going to do that anymore."
And it basically ended with, "I can't trust that you love me," which was at the time probably
the most hurtful thing anybody has ever said to me.
I was bawling my eyes out for a while that night. It wasn't last night, it was Tuesday
nights the night before.
And all I was in so much pain, all I could do was, I couldn't take in anything, any of
the pain that she was expressing and all I could say was, "I'm sorry if my actions have
made you feel that way," but that's the most painful, that's like the most hurtful thing
anybody has ever said to me.
It makes me feel like the last three years have meant nothing at all.
She said something and I said, "I'm sorry Holly, I was doing the best I could. I tried,
I tried, I did the best I could, I'm sorry that wasn't enough." And then she said, "I've
just been telling you I wasn't enough, Michael." And that it absolutely didn't mean nothing.
And then I said, "I can't process any more tonight, goodbye, I'll see you, good night,
I'll talk to you in the morning." Or just, "I can't process any more tonight, good night."
And she texted me back the 7th day of the next morning and said, "That's okay, it's
clear that you don't understand me and you never did. I'm going to leave you with your
pain and say goodbye, I'm going to block you here. It's goodbye for now." And I responded
and said, "Look, I'm trying, I am trying to process all of this, but I'm sorry that I
can't immediately." It's clear that, and she's like, "This was all about you these
last two months. I've tried to make everything work and I've tried to, I did everything
to make this last two months to work and it's all been all about you and your pain and the
one time I put forward my pain that's the reaction I get, like it means nothing. What
kind of bitter reaction is that? Clearly you never understood me. Goodbye, basically."
And then I responded and then I just like cracked basically and sent her 29 furious texts saying,
"I'm sorry I can't immediately process your pain when I am going, when you just said something
that is making me feel probably almost the most pain I've ever felt in my life. Don't
you dare put this all on me. After everything, I know you were in so much pain and there
were so many things I did that let you down." I didn't actually say that, but I know you
poured so much of yourself into this relationship and you were hurt and it let you down, but
you're not the only one who poured themselves into that relationship. I gave more than I
had. How dare, don't you dare put all this on me. It's so unfair to say that the last
two months have just been about me and my pain. What about everything to do with me
coming over and being with you for Pippi and all the pain that you have, I've barely
told you anything of what I've been feeling at all. I've been holding it all fucking back.
And you are not the only one who has suffered through this fucking relationship, who poured
themselves into this fucking relationship. And I did so much after everything you tell
me you can't trust that I don't love you. After everything I fucking did for the last
three years. I need to process that hurt before I can deal with yours and I'm trying
to. I'm trying to put myself in your shoes. I'm trying to take responsibility for the
things that I've done. I'm trying to do that, but I can't do that immediately. I need to
fucking process what you have just told me, which is so incredibly fucking painful. And
if we ever want to have any kind of friendship, we need to resolve this. If you don't want
to resolve that, I understand, I respect that. I will be disappointed, but I will respect
that. If you do, we need to talk about some shit, basically. And then she texted back
and then later in the day, she didn't respond at all and then later in the day I looked
at my Facebook and she unfriended me. She unfriended me on Facebook, she's unfriended
mum and I was devastated. I was devastated and I went home, I left work early and then
on the way home she responded and said, "I can't respond to 29 messages." Clearly we
had different recollections. I said, "Amongst my texts, you pressured me into marriage when
I told you I wasn't sure I wanted to get married. You told me you would leave me if I didn't
marry you soon enough." Granted, soon enough was like eight years. But you put pressure
on, you basically engaged, I didn't say this, but she basically proposed to me in the first
six months of our relationship and then did it multiple more times after saying she wouldn't.
After us talking about, "I'm not sure if I really want to get married at all. I don't
even know if I would like the idea of marriage." Do you know how much fucking pressure that
put on me? And then at the end after fucking reading a book like reading Clementine Ford
suddenly having problems with marriage, suddenly you're all on board and you're not sure you
like marriage either. Actually that whole time you never really wanted to get married.
And you weren't really sure what all of that was about. Fuck you, basically. So yes, I
have to process my own shit first. I'm sorry. But clearly she is in a great deal of pain.
She's really, really hurt that I rejected her again. And she said, "I feel like I was
rejected. I had to convince you to love me. I loved you so much the whole time and I showed
that again and again and again and I felt like I had to convince you to love me." And
now when I've tried to say maybe we can make it work, you've rejected me every way I've
tried. She's clearly really, really hurt about this, but also clearly there's stuff throughout
the relationship. I didn't know that she was feeling rejected throughout the relationship.
I'm so sorry that that's the case. I was never trying to do that. And I want to sit and engage
with what she has said and email her back and say, "I'm sorry, Holly. I'm sorry about
all of this. I didn't know some of these things. I know you poured yourself into this relationship."
And just sit with her pain. No excuses, no defensiveness, nothing of what I'm feeling
and just say, "I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry for all of this. If you want to, explain
all of this, whatever you feel you need to." I hadn't realized that you were feeling rejected
in our relationship all that much. There were reasons I didn't get, because we were trying
to avoid talking about our relationship, there were reasons I didn't explain. There were
reasons why I'm saying no to us trying again right now because really, I don't think it's
going to fucking work. It's not that I don't want that, although in some ways I don't.
I just don't see how it can work at the moment. And I don't want that pain anymore. There
is a reason that we mutually agreed to break up. And I'm sorry that makes you feel rejected
again. I couldn't talk about any of that because we were trying to avoid talking about
the relationship. It seemed like you didn't want to talk about it, about any of that because
you thought about it and actually, "Yeah, no, you're good. You'd agree." But no, actually,
you just didn't want to talk about it and you were incredibly resentful and in pain about
it. So maybe we actually need to talk about it. But if we're going to talk about this,
we need to talk about it. We need to talk about all of it, not this half talking about
that we have been doing that keeps leading to all these misunderstandings and pain. But
I understand that that's a lot and we're both trying to move on a bit at the moment.
So maybe we should just leave it for now and give ourselves a few months of no contact
and just trying to move on with our lives and then talk about it later. But I'm not
happy. I don't want to leave things like this. But I understand if you don't want to do any
more than this. I don't feel like you've understood me. I don't feel like I've made myself understood
and clearly maybe I haven't understood you. There's parts that I wasn't aware of and I'm
sorry but I haven't really been able to process some of your pain because I've been in a lot
of ... I've constantly been in pain about exactly what we're talking about here. I've
had it very hard to accept and process your pain because it feels like you're invalidating
mine and that's been happening since July last year. And I don't think you've taken
fucking responsibility for the pain you've caused me at all. I don't think you even know
most of the pain you've caused me. But I do want to sit with her pain even if she never
responds. I do want to send her an email and say, "Look, I'm sorry." And do as much as
I can to take responsibility and sit with her pain and open a dialogue if she wants
that. But I'm not willing to have these half conversations. We either talk about it all
or we don't. And maybe talking about it all means we need to leave it for a while.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
