It's 3.30pm, I mean I don't fucking need to say the time, it's already on the file.
It's kind of a seabird.
Holly just responded to me, to the massive fucking email I sent yesterday.
And once again I feel fucking steamrolled.
Like everything I have to say is wrong, and she's just right.
She's so fucking convinced about everything she fucking says all the time.
And I feel like she's not fucking listening to me.
She's just disregarding me.
And I don't want to fucking do this anymore.
But what I picked this up to say was, I'm noticing again that I feel, desperately feel like I want this to be resolved.
Like I want...
I think the thing is, stepping aside here, she feels like I wasn't excited about Melbourne.
Because she thinks I didn't believe in her.
And...
Maybe in some ways I didn't.
But I just, I had a clear boundary.
I had a clear boundary and...
It's like she thinks that because I wasn't willing to pay for us to go down to Melbourne, I didn't want to go to Melbourne.
You know?
I understand that, but I understand you needed to go.
But I am not fucking paying for the entirety of us to get down there.
I'm not doing it because I've done that so many fucking times in our relationship.
And it always ends up with you not fucking paying me back.
I know you think we think we're equal, they weren't.
There is so much in our relationship that I paid for that you never fucking touched at all.
Yes, you did pay for four things, some things which was really lovely, like a couple of birthday meals.
And we did go halves on groceries as much as possible.
But big stuff, I always fucking paid for.
Every fucking time I paid for it.
And you were so, it is your fucking responsibility to pay me back.
It's not mine.
She just can't fucking take any responsibility.
She is generally very good when it comes to taking responsibility, but she can't fucking do it when it comes to money.
And her work situation.
She just can't fucking do it.
She's convinced that she's fucking right.
And once again, in our relationship, she just fucking steamrolls over me.
The more we talk, the further away we get.
The less we seem to understand each other, the more we uncover as to all the fucking bullshit we have to go over.
I'm fucking tired of this shit.
I'm done.
This is why we broke up, so we didn't have to fucking deal with this shit anymore.
Although, she's saying that the reason she broke up is because she didn't see the point in continuing if I didn't have any faith in her.
That's so fucking unfair.
That is so fucking unfair.
How am I supposed to fucking just believe that she's instantly going to be able to fix all these fucking problems that she's struggling with?
Fuck me.
I think part of the problem...
is that these conversations just... they're not just a conversation.
They're like so threatening or something.
It's not threatening. I can't... they're like emotionally overwhelming.
It's like I can't handle the emotions that are involved with these and I just want to run away.
And my default tendency is to not want to deal with this stuff.
Yeah, so I put it off while I spend literally all fucking day.
This is fucking wearing me out so much.
I think a lot of this comes down to...
This is really my first...
I've never had emotional tolerance or emotional capacity or any of that self-soothing, any of that shit modeled.
And I've never really... I've run away from this stuff my whole life.
And now I'm being forced to face it and it's wearing me the fuck out.
On top of everything else, like I already find life, most of life, fucking tiring and confusing and...
so stressful and overwhelming.
Life is not fucking easy and then this on top, it just feels too... I just don't feel like I have the capacity.
I just don't feel like I have the capacity for this.
I think all of that just activated my inner child.
That was the exact same response.
I was sitting in the shower thinking I think I need to learn how to sit with the discomfort of people being angry at me.
But I'm learning that when someone gets angry at me particularly, I think I kind of just in general feel like people being angry at me.
My natural response or my automatic response is to feel like the other person's being unfair because I'm trying so hard.
Kind of thing.
Particularly when I do think they're being unfair, I think my response just often seems to be get really hurt and angry and overwhelmed and upset about the unfairness of it.
And get resentful.
When my mind kind of spins around it for a while, I remember the time that one of my bosses got angry, I can't remember her name, the manager at Brisbane Entertainment Centre, the older lady with the bun.
She got pissed at me for something and I spent the next half an hour grumbling under my breath thinking about "fuck you lady, that's not fair".
And I think that comes from childhood, I don't know where exactly, but I think it comes from somewhere in childhood.
And probably actually thinking about it probably from my fifth grade teacher.
And I think that in some ways makes it hard for me to take responsibility for things.
Because that just automatically takes over and it's like "no, fuck you, that's not fair".
And sometimes I think it really isn't but there's definitely elements of what Holly said I think that are fair and I was reacting to.
And I think part of it is also just like people getting angry at me when I'm just trying to do my best.
My intentions are good, I'm just trying really hard, putting all this effort in and they're getting pissed off at me.
It's like "that's not fair, I'm doing the best I can" kind of thing.
Just understand me, please understand me, I'm trying so hard, I'm trying so hard to make you understand.
I think that's a pattern and it's probably something I need to deal with in therapy.
[silence]
