It's 6.59am on Wednesday the 7th of June.
It's kind of a fever. I'm in a lot of emotional pain today.
I'm exhausted. I'm physically and emotionally...
Ugh, Jesus.
No thank you.
Back that smells dank.
I'm physically and emotionally exhausted.
And I'm desperately trying to not think about anything.
I'm tired of... part of it is I'm just fucking tired of...
I'm tired because I keep struggling to get to sleep and going to bed too late.
Now I'm fucking tired of that dynamic and I want to fix it.
But I've tried my entire fucking life to fix it and I'm just...
I'm kind of tired of myself this morning.
Ugh, God.
I think it's um...
Like sparks from...
Um...
I don't know. I don't know what the fuck it is.
Oh, three helicopters. Weird.
Ugh, I'm finding talking very hard this morning.
I'm going to have to pause it for a sec.
Part of the pain is that um...
It looks like Holly is holding onto hope that I will come down to Melbourne and we'll get back together and everything will be fine.
Now.
Kind of thing.
And I really don't want to but I have to burst that bubble.
Because I also want to hold onto hope.
I don't think we can make it work now but...
I want to hold onto hope that we can find our way back to each other.
I want... I don't want to...
I don't want to hurt her. I don't want to...
I don't want her to feel so much hurt and sadness and hopelessness.
I don't... It's a beautiful thing that she's trying to hold onto.
I don't want to burst that.
Um, it's really hurting me.
Um...
And...
I um...
I'm planning on doing this this morning.
I want to hold onto that hope too but I know it's not right for both of us.
It's just hurting both of us.
It's beautiful. I want that hope and I want to be able to think that we can get back together.
And she's... That's what she's doing.
And I just don't want to do that to her.
I don't want to do that to me. We have to.
And it's like we agree and now she's forgotten that and I have to be the one to...
She feels like I now have to be the one to break up with her again.
Or she wants this for me to come down and be with her.
And there's a big part of me that wants that and there's another part of me that doesn't at all.
And the part of me that doesn't at all is the part that's more rational right now.
Because I know it wasn't working.
And this is hurting both of us so much. We both just need to put it to rest for a while and move on.
And I know they say once you break up the other person's feelings aren't your responsibility anymore but I don't know if I can do that.
I love her so much and I don't want to hurt her. I want her to be okay.
And she's so hard.
And I'm fucking so tired of all this emotional pain.
This is why we broke up so we didn't have to deal with this shit.
I can't. It's like I'm so close to not being able to bring myself to say we're done, Holly.
We can't keep doing this because I want to hold on to...
I want...
There's a big part of me that's hoping for some moment of insight or that she'll say something that convinces me that it will all be okay.
I can't see how that's going to work.
We're both still holding on. Neither of us have let go. We're both holding on with a fucking death grip.
And it's hurting both of us so much.
I'm tired. So tired.
I feel so incapable of...
For fuck's sake.
Please move forward.
I feel so incapable of keeping up with life and I think a lot of it has to do with my difficulty with feeling overwhelmed and exhausted by my emotions.
And my mind. My mind is exhausting.
Just want to give me a fucking moment's peace.
I find work so fucking tiring. It takes up so much of my life.
I can't let go of all the other things I want to do.
And I can't also do any of those things and also find some slowness and peace.
Fuck.
This just never gets better.
I'm in so much pain.
