6.45, 44 actually, 6.44am on Thursday the 8th, I think, I think it's the 8th of June.
This is kind of my Siva for the day.
I... first some thoughts.
I...
I've been thinking this morning about what I'm going to say to Holly.
And I've been thinking, I...
I was kind of saying to myself, it's time to accept the reality that as much as I didn't
want, I still kind of don't.
And throughout our relationship I was constantly fighting for it not to be the case, but it's
time to accept the reality that I'm, at the moment, I'm kind of just, I don't think I'm
equipped for that relationship.
It is too much for me at this stage in my life.
It's too complex for me.
It's too much...
It's too much everything for me, to be honest.
And it's not like we just...
It's not like I...
I was kind of thinking that from the beginning of the relationship, basically like... for
most of that relationship, even from the start.
I'm not going to tell Holly this because I think it would hurt her quite a lot.
But from the start of the relationship I...
I had doubts about my capability to deal with the relationship, I guess.
It just...
I didn't know it, but I knew it in a sense of...
In a difference in a...
I didn't know it in the sense of like I do now, with experience and reflection, and I
can look back on it and say, "Yep, that was the case."
I suspected.
And I kind of kept suspecting.
That suspicion didn't really go away all that much.
In the second year of our relationship, I think it did.
I think the second year of our relationship was in some ways the easiest, although at
the same time it was also really fucking hard.
But I think our relationship was maybe doing the best.
Our relationship was the most exciting in the first year, but it was also really overwhelming.
Our relationship in the third year was really overwhelming and not exciting, and just quite
painful a lot of the time.
And our relationship in the second year was like, I don't know, hopeful and the excitement
had faded, but it was kind of in a lot of ways still comfortable.
I think the second year of our relationship was the most comfortable part of our relationship
in some ways.
It was also a difficult fucking year.
It's when Holly was, she got sick a bunch of times.
She started work.
It was the start of really having the fucking breakdown about design after she went to design
conference.
I did my leg and then had fucking surgery.
We were recovering from Molly dying.
It was a lot that year.
Anyway this is a bit of a sidetrack.
What I was trying to talk about was...
What was I trying to talk about?
Fuck.
Just another quick little aside.
I actually got enough sleep last night because I turned off...
Pretty much got off the computer bang on 8.30.
I still minced around a little bit doing some other things, but I got to bed at a reasonable
time-ish.
Although I think I actually was lying down at maybe quarter past and fell asleep relatively
quickly.
I listened to some boring audio book and fell asleep pretty quickly.
I think I got enough sleep.
I'm still a bit tired.
My eyes are still a bit tired and I still am a bit...
But I feel significantly better than I normally do.
That's a good sign.
I should keep doing that.
As I'm saying that I am already feeling like I'm starting to fade a bit.
My eyes are actually quite tired.
What was I talking about before the stuff about where our relationship was?
Throughout our relationship I always felt like the relationship was too much for me,
like I wasn't equipped for it.
That really came to my head last year trying to balance the relationship on top of everything
else.
But it was never really an easy relationship.
There were periods that were, that were comfortable, but it was usually not easy.
I felt like we had to fight quite a lot to arrive at comfort.
I think maybe it's not like I just suspected that, got scared and then ran away.
I fucking tried for three years through a great deal of pain.
To be honest, put both of us through a great deal of pain because Holly was ready to call
it quits last year.
I was the one that kind of I think fought for that.
Because I wasn't ready to let go and I thought there was more we should do.
To be honest, I think there was.
I think there was more that we could and should do.
I could have done more.
I did as much as, objectively I could have done more.
I did as much as I could with the circumstances and resources I had.
We did, there was more that we could have done that we needed to do after July to actually
say with confidence, "Yeah, look, this isn't working.
We've tried.
We kind of fucking, we tried.
We really did try.
We tried.
Both of us tried so much."
It wasn't a lack of trying to make that not the case.
Because only so much you can fight against the reality that our needs were different.
Our needs I think are fundamentally different.
Which is probably the core of why we struggled and why things weren't easy.
It was just a complex, a very complex and at times difficult relationship that I wasn't
equipped for.
As somebody who has never had a relationship before, struggles with intimacy a little bit,
struggles with, has all sorts of hang ups around sex.
Has only just discovered the depth of their struggle to be vulnerable and struggle with
emotions and all that.
I spent my life thinking I was pretty good at emotions and that relationship really disabused
me of that, at least my own emotions.
I was not ready.
The amount I was not ready is part of why I struggled so much because I wanted to be
ready.
I wanted things to be okay so much.
I didn't want to hurt her and the ways that I wasn't ready were hurting me and hurting
her.
I'm still not ready for that relationship.
I am more ready now than I ever was by going through the relationship but I can't struggle
that much anymore on a day to day basis.
That relationship just was not right for her.
I need to stop saying it about us because I can't read her mind.
From what I can see I don't think it was right for her either but I need to make it about
me.
That relationship was not right for me in the end.
It was good in so many ways, it was wonderful in so many ways and it was right in a bunch
of ways but in the ways that mattered the most it was not right.
It was not working and that's why we broke up mutually.
It was not working for either of us.
She was feeling rejected because I just didn't want her.
I just couldn't give her the time and attention that she needed but I did that as much as
I could.
The amount I was doing it was hurting me which does make me worry.
It makes me worry that the amount of space I needed is just maybe not conducive to having
any relationship.
That's really sad.
Obviously I wish that wasn't the case but I just can't keep fighting that reality.
It was hurting both of us and I'm tired of fighting.
I am holding out hope that maybe things will change at some point because there is, I think
the reason for that is because there was so much good about the relationship but also
because there was that glimmer I saw of Holly kind of wanting and part of her needing the
same thing that I did but I think the part of her that needs the opposite of what I need
is so much stronger because that's the part that, that's the way she behaved, that's the
part that came to the fore throughout our relationship and the part that is the part
that I saw and was hoping would come out more especially in Melbourne when she found her
own independence.
That part never really materialised all that much.
The other part of her, the anxious part went out again and again and again and I hold out
hope for the future because I saw that part of her and I had a strong suspicion that the
chance to live her own life, be on her own, not live by anybody else's requirements and
just do the things that she wants to do for herself, make her own decisions just taking
herself into account.
Just taking herself into account.
God damn, I'm doing really well this morning.
I'm going to be there at 7.17.
Fuck yeah.
Days off to a great start.
What was I talking about?
I do want to say to her, part of what I want to say to her is look, you also recognise
this at multiple points.
I know this hurts and I'm sorry it hurts and I'm sorry you feel rejected but you recognise
this throughout our relationship too.
You said that I strongly feel, I personally strongly feel like you at this point in your
life, what you need is not me, what you need is to be alone in your own person and to have
the opportunity to do that.
That's not why I'm saying no and you told me multiple times that you needed to be able
to, our relationship was in some ways holding you back from being able to do things the
way you wanted to and I agree but that's not why I'm doing it.
That's important but that's not why I'm doing this.
I'm doing this because I can't fight this anymore.
I can't fight it anymore.
I'm tired of hurting you.
I'm tired of being hurt by you and I'm tired of hurting myself primarily.
More than anything else I'm tired of hurting myself.
I'm tired of fighting.
I'm tired of, I'm exhausted.
Our relationship was wonderful in so many ways but it was also painful and it was also
difficult and it was not easy.
We fought, it wasn't for lack of trying.
We tried to make it work for three years.
Both of us did and there's definitely more that both of us could have done objectively
in an ideal world but we both did the best, we both did everything we could with the circumstances
and resources we had.
Neither of us should feel like we didn't try.
We both tried so fucking hard.
It wasn't for lack of trying to make our relationship work.
We fought to make it work.
And I'm sorry there are things that I didn't do that you needed me to do.
I'm sorry that that hurt you and I'm also sorry that those things may have helped our
relationship but I think ultimately that I did everything I could with the spoons I had
and with the situation we were in.
And the thing is our situation, I don't think our situation changing would have changed
that much because we kind of kept ending up in similar situations and I think that means
that's us, not really the situation.
I just can't fight that reality anymore.
I don't think our needs are compatible.
I think our needs in some ways and there's nothing wrong with either of our needs, what
we need out of a relationship but our needs seem to hurt each other and I'm tired of fighting
that.
I can't fight that anymore.
And I felt like I couldn't face what I needed because I didn't feel like my needs were right
or okay.
I constantly felt like I was wrong so I wasn't even able to consciously look at what it was
I actually needed.
And then even when I was aware of it I couldn't talk to you about it because I felt like I
was wrong.
And part of that is because you basically told me it was wrong but I would have struggled
with that regardless.
But I tried to give you what you needed and it still hurts you.
The amount I could give you still hurt you.
And it was hurting me the amount I was giving you.
There's nothing wrong with what you need.
It seems like, I may be wrong but it seems like what you need in a relationship is a
lot of time and attention.
Time with and attention from the person that you love.
And there's absolutely nothing wrong with that.
But I don't think I can give that to you.
And what I need is a lot of like, I need that a bit too but I need a lot less than you and
I need a lot of fucking space.
I need so much time and space to myself.
I think maybe part of that was our relationship but a big part of that has happened in so
many of my relationships.
Now I almost ended my friendship with Jeremy, the person who's down by, who's my best friend.
I almost ended my relationship, my friendship with him when he was living with me for a
year because the same thing happened.
He wanted to keep doing things, he would keep coming in and talking to me and I didn't,
I couldn't deal with that and I couldn't face what I actually needed and say, "I'm
sorry, I need more time to myself."
And I got so, it tore me to pieces and I tore myself to pieces.
Exactly the same as in our relationship.
It's time for me to accept that I am just a person that needs so much fucking space
to themselves.
Part of that is probably because I struggle to be vulnerable but also part of that is
because I am incredibly obsessed about and passionate about things that I care about
and I need to be able to do those things.
That's part of what I wanted out of our relationship.
And I saw in some ways, I saw that unfolding in some ways because of your love and passion
for art.
And the times that you said, "I want to just go do my art," I was fucking ecstatic.
I tried to tell you that so many times.
All I wanted was for you to go do your art.
I wanted each of us to have our own space and to be able to go do that, to do the thing
that we were passionate about and do that together.
Together alone kind of thing.
For a part kind of thing.
And come back together and kiss and talk a little bit about that.
But it seems like that's not what you needed.
And you said maybe if we do a long distance or a long distance or a low contact relationship,
I'm sorry but I can't believe that that would actually happen.
Because that's not how you acted almost at any point in our entire relationship.
You yourself told me that you had become obsessed with me and that you stopped doing your art
because of me.
Which I think to be honest is a bit unfair.
I think it's a bit unfair to blame me for you not doing your art.
But maybe there's something I'm not understanding there.
That's all I ever wanted.
But that's not the way you acted at any point in our relationship.
And I can't, from what I see, maybe I'm wrong, you know your needs better than me.
From what I have experienced of you over the last three years, that to me sounds like you
crushing your own needs to try and make our relationship work.
I think you are maybe just the kind of person who, what they need to feel loved and connected
and what they need out of a relationship is time and attention with the person they love
and there's absolutely nothing wrong with that.
That's wonderful but I can't give that to you to the degree that you need it.
I tried as much as I could.
I gave you more than I could.
I gave you so much it was hurting me.
Because I wasn't, that was me going past what I needed and that still, despite me giving
you so much it hurt me, that amount I could give you still hurt you.
And that just tells me that our needs are not compatible.
And there's a lot of things, there was a lot of problems in our relationship and I think
with time and effort most of them could have been solved but I cannot see a way, I really
fucking wish it was different but I can't see a way to make that, to get past that problem.
I can't see a way to get past that incompatibility.
And I'm, we tried, both of us tried for three years to get part, to make it work.
And it just wasn't, it just was not working.
And we were both getting exhausted and hurt trying to make it work.
And it's not for lack of trying, we both tried.
And I can't fight that, I can't fight anymore.
I'm sorry that that hurts.
It hurts me and I'm sure it probably hurts you.
I'm so sorry for that but there's only so much I can push over a boulder, you know.
Last year was so fucking tiring and painful and that's why we broke up.
We both realised that and we both broke up because of that.
And I'm still, there is a part of me that's, to be honest, in my heart of hearts I'm still
holding on to hope that we can maybe at some point in our lives find our way back to each
other, find our way back to each other in some, in together.
But that's probably not a good idea because then we're just holding out, like neither
of us, we shouldn't be holding, we shouldn't be waiting for each other because it's not
fair.
And there's part of me that feels like maybe there is a big part of you that, there is
a part of you that does need the same thing as what I need.
You need that space and that time to yourself because you are all so passionate and maybe
just you haven't been able to get to find that part of yourself because you've never
had the opportunity to be on your own really.
And maybe I'm hoping that Melbourne will give that for you, give that to you.
Now that this is the first step and you, this is a really big step in you being able to
find that for yourself.
So there is part of me that holds out hope that maybe with time that our needs will become
a bit closer to each other.
But I don't know if my needs, that's from your end, but from my end I don't know if
my needs are ever going to change that much.
And I don't know how much of it is just what I have to accept.
I don't want to fight my needs anymore.
I don't want to feel bad about or apologise for my needs anymore.
But I also don't know how much of that is my needs that I need to accept and how much
of it is I need to learn how to compromise on.
And I spent so much time tearing myself to pieces about all of that.
I understand, and I understand if all of this is, hurts you and it's just too painful and
you never want to see me again or talk to me again.
I will be sad, but I understand if that's the case.
Regardless of what happens, if that's not the case, regardless of what happens, I hope that
we can find a way to be in each other's lives in some capacity because you are so important
to me.
And I just, I want to know that you are doing, that you, after you have had time and recovered
from this enough, I want to know that you are doing okay.
I want to know how you're doing.
I want to see, I want to know your victories a little bit so I can celebrate them because
I want everything good for you.
It's all I've ever wanted is for you to be okay.
But I think right now what both of us need is like time and space from each other so
that we don't have to keep ripping this wound open.
So if you want to reply to this, it sounds like you didn't really want to continue the
conversation at all.
So in which case this email will probably be the last contact we have for a while if
you want to reply to this.
I'll read another, like one more email from you if you do want to reply to this.
But after that, beyond some, like administrative stuff like the Excel or the debt, I'm not
going to respond to any emails you send for, I don't know, some arbitrary amount of time.
I'm just going to set it at maybe three months or something, three or four months and then
I'll send you an email or you can send me an email or something and we'll see how we're
feeling.
Otherwise, you can tell me to get fucked if you never want to speak to me again if
that's what you need.
But right now what we both, I think what we both, I wish, there's a big part of me that
wishes I could be in Melbourne with you.
Every time you tell me about all the things that you're doing that you wish you could
share with me, it's like a knife in the fucking heart because I wish I could share it with
you too.
I was so excited to do that.
It tore me apart that I can't.
Please don't act like it isn't.
But I'm not there because I can't do this anymore.
And you realised that too.
So, after this, I'm not going to contact you.
Outside of a miniature stuff that we still need to be able to deal with that if we have
to but I'm not going to contact you anymore for some amount of time.
I'm going to say three months.
I'll send you an email in three months maybe.
It may be in three months.
I might send you an email that just says nothing's really changed.
I'm still feeling pretty much the same.
Sorry, I'm going to give it another three months.
But we need to be, both of us need to be able to move on and to get on with our lives a
bit.
There's only so much moving on we can do and actually moving on is probably going to
take fucking years.
I don't know about you but for me, moving on, I'm probably never going to completely
move on and any kind of actual moving on is probably going to take, any level of moving
on is probably going to fucking take years but we need to be able to get on with our
lives and not be in pain all the time.
And that means we need to not talk to each other for a while.
And that also fucking hurts.
And that's going to hurt a lot for a bit.
We're going to miss each other so fucking much because we have still been holding on
to that.
But that's hurting us.
It's hurting me.
And I know I've been pushing that because I've been trying to get, I just wanted us
to be on the same page.
I'm sorry for that but I'm also not sorry because I do think it's important for us to
be on the same page with us as we can.
But I think we need to stop.
And it's going to hurt.
And I'm not going to move on, I just need to start trying to get on with my life without
being in fucking pain all the time.
So I will read one more email from you but I'm not going to respond.
But after that I'm not going to respond to any more emails outside of administrative
stuff.
I wish you so well.
I hope you have just the absolute, like after you do start to heal a bit, I hope you have
just the absolute fucking best time in Melbourne and that you get everything you need out of
it.
I'm so excited for you and so happy for you.
And I hope at some point in the future, maybe next year or something, I can come down, we
can get to a point where I can come down and hear all about it.
I can come down and see you and hear everything about how everything's gone.
And until then, I'm sorry.
Be as well as you can.
Bye.
