I'm listening to episode 38 of "This Changes Everything".
This episode's on...
It's one of the sex-based episodes, but in this episode Sarah is talking about how she
cries after almost every orgasm.
Not a lot, but she cries a little bit.
And that it's like a stress release, a somatic release.
And that makes me feel really validated.
That makes me feel like it's kind of okay that I do kind of the same.
Particularly when...
...Holly was going down on me.
Um...
I guess in some way something very physical, and obviously something very emotional about it.
And they say that one of the reasons you cry is that she's crying is maybe because she feels safe.
And I did, with Holly, when I was crying.
I cried because I felt accepted and loved and safe and wanted and seen.
In a way that I'd never...
You know, I'd spent my whole life feeling unwanted.
And honestly unsafe around sex.
And those moments felt like...
...the opposite of that.
She then goes on to talk about how if you've experienced sexual trauma, it feels like a
part of you has been stolen and somebody else controls it.
Which I think is what happened with Holly.
Her sexuality was hijacked in some ways.
It wasn't something she was comfortable or safe with.
Because of her experiences.
She says that a consensual, negotiated, planned sexual experience that is...
...something you maybe wouldn't ordinarily do.
Something that's maybe a bit rougher, kinkier.
Like she's talking about rope playing because her partner signed them up for a weekend for that.
How doing that, exploring that in a safe environment can be extremely freeing and opening.
And I think, unfortunately with Holly, I still...
There were definitely times where I did, but there was a lot of times I didn't feel safe
sexually with Holly because I felt like...
I felt like my sexuality was a threat to her in some ways.
I felt like my sexuality made her feel unsafe.
And in some ways it did.
It's just so sad.
And it's also really difficult for me that my first basically sexual experience,
real sexual experience, like first loving sexual experience, first intimate experience,
first relationship, sexual relationship was... that was a part of it.
That's really difficult.
That's so hard to navigate for somebody who's uncertain about these things and scared about them.
Which makes me more confident that I don't want that to be the case.
But again, it makes me really fucking wish that I'd had different experiences before I'd met Holly.
That I'd had that experience so I could come into that sexual relationship with Holly being more prepared.
Rather than that being my first sexual relationship being fucking complicated.
And part of it in some ways makes me want to have sexual relationships with other people
so I can learn those things and then get back together with Holly, which is just not helpful.
And that's why you don't fucking look away.
Fucking good brakes though.
I might have just slammed into the back of somebody because I was looking away for a moment.
That's kind of a buterated buter I was thinking about.
I don't think I was equipped sexually for that relationship.
And in a bunch of other ways I don't think I was equipped for that relationship.
I don't think I was ready for that relationship.
I probably needed my first relationship to not be one that was quite so complex and troubled.
I don't want it to be over because of that.
Because it was so wonderful in so many ways.
[Sigh]
[Sigh]
[Sigh]
