It's 7.07am on Friday the 2nd of June.
Fucking half way through the year already, Jesus Christ.
It's the last day of poly being in Sydney.
The day that Diablo 4 is released, it's out, it's playable in an hour and a half.
That's what I'm going to be doing for the next couple days.
With some breaks to organise shit.
But...
I...
I'm actually not doing a SEVA this morning. I kind of did quite a lot of feeling last night.
Instead I am...
Going to...
Ah, I actually forgot what I was going to talk about. It was something to do with... Oh yeah.
I've been thinking... I've just been thinking about...
I started thinking about BoJack Horseman.
The show.
The feelings I had around that show and how devastating the last season is.
And how much... how I sympathise with... how I feel really...
I don't know, maybe empathise but definitely sympathise and feel for BoJack.
And how devastating it is.
How everything... that kind of like... everything was starting to go well for him a little bit.
And then everything... the way things end.
Him losing pretty much everyone in his life.
But that... you also probably deserves that.
And the emotional complexity around all of that.
And... feeling for Diane.
But also like...
Noticing that I never really... I didn't really feel all that much for any of the people.
And like any of the characters that BoJack hurt who weren't the primary characters of the show.
And it made me think about, you know...
How I'm... I kind of... I was kind of trying... I was kind of...
Feeling the complexity... complex emotions around...
Empathising, you know, not reducing BoJack to just a bad guy.
And you know, like a few people on the internet were saying, you know, he's a piece of shit and he deserves everything he got.
And I felt absolutely nothing for him.
I didn't feel that at all.
But I also was feeling...
I was also feeling quite a lot for...
The other people in his life who he hurt, like particularly Diane.
You know, like the episode where she...
Like the episode where she sees Mr. Peanutbutter with pickles.
And...
Like, it's bawling her eyes out in her car. I really felt that.
Probably because I'm just going through a breakup myself.
But I did notice that I, you know, I didn't...
Empathise as much with some of BoJack's victims.
Like Charlotte, for example.
Like I did feel for Charlotte a bit, but I didn't feel as much compared to what I felt for BoJack.
And a lot of the people on the internet who wrote BoJack off, and like Holly for example,
who she kind of wrote BoJack off, where you usually seem to be women who have often been through some shit.
Which is pretty much every woman.
And it made me think about my reaction to Holly, some of Holly's feelings around things.
How, you know, how angry she was and how bitter and...
The way she judged things, you know, she jumped to judgements about things and people.
She could actually be very judgemental with people.
You know, like, I actually found it kind of hard to deal with her...
Some of her more negative feelings towards things like her parents and...
Like...
Particularly her grandad.
And her feelings around pedophiles.
I don't know, like that conversation we had about pedophiles.
How she thought it would be, you know, he should kill that pedophile on that show, he should kill himself.
And she didn't really feel any sympathy for his pain.
And I found that actually really difficult to take.
And I kind of, like, lost some respect for her.
I judged her for that.
And it's kind of like... Because I value so highly trying to see everyone's perspective and not just, you know, reducing people to...
One, you know, to the things they've done.
Seeing everybody in their pain, trying to see everybody in their pain.
But at the same time, who... I've never had... You know, I haven't had the experience as Holly has.
I haven't been so... Had my life been so heavily impacted by trauma.
I haven't.
Which is, in a lot of ways, passed on from her parents, from her mum, because of the actions of her grandfather.
Because she hated.
You know, who was a pedophile.
Although, you know, in some ways, I kind of have been, because I'm pretty sure mum was also sexually assaulted by her grandfather.
Or her father, you know, her grandfather. So it's my great-grandfather.
And that impacted her, and she has impacted me.
In different ways to what Holly's dealt with, but I've also been impacted.
Just haven't really recognised those things.
But it's like, who am I to judge Holly for that?
I judged her really heavily and lost respect for her, and found that part of her really hard to deal with.
And that's okay, because of what the my values, but at the same time, I haven't had those experiences.
Who am I to judge her for that?
And it made me realise that that relationship was really emotionally complex.
That was a very emotionally complex relationship.
And I don't think I had the emotional mature.
Like, given that it was my first relationship, I'm emotionally mature in quite a few ways, I think.
But also in quite a few others. Not at all.
You know, I'm trying to be as open-minded and as open as I can to everyone.
But I had a lot of trouble dealing with those parts of Holly.
And that was my first experience of dealing with anything.
I mean, so much of that relationship was my first experience of so many things.
And...
Yeah, I don't think I was prepared for...
That was an incredibly emotionally complex relationship, and that was very difficult for my first relationship.
I think that was... I was not prepared.
In so many ways, I was not prepared for that relationship.
It was wonderful in so many ways, but I was also not prepared for it in so many ways.
I really wish I had been... That's why I wish I had had relationships beforehand.
So I had more emotional maturity in my life, so I was more able to be ready for that relationship, but I wasn't.
In so many ways.
That relationship was really hard, and that was a big part of why I wasn't prepared for it.
I mean, nobody's... You're never really ready for anything really, and every relationship pushes you and forces you to grow, but fuck, and hell, that relationship was like a trial by fire.
I feel a little sad, I think.
That I wasn't all prepared, and...
But I also feel grateful to Holly for, in some ways, giving me the opportunity to grow in the ways that she did.
And I feel sad that I wasn't able to be ready and get through it.
But I think, as I was talking about last night, I think ultimately, everything else aside, I'm really not sure it ever would have worked in the long term, because our needs were just fundamentally different, I think.
Our needs hurt each other.
And I don't think... I'm not sure there was any way to resolve that as much as both of us wanted that to be the case.
And as much as she had all this wishful thinking around just being able to do things differently.
Yeah.
