This is...
I don't know.
I'm calling it a seabar. I'm going for a walk at the moment.
Needed to get out of the house.
Taken the day off work today.
Ostensibly for mental health reasons.
Which is partly it, but really it's just I don't want to fucking go to work.
And tomorrow I'm... I kinda needed time to make a decision.
And I've had that time to make that decision.
And tomorrow I'm handing in my resignation.
Time to move on to other things.
But that's not why I started doing this.
I'm thinking about Holly a lot at the moment.
I think actually I'm thinking about her more now.
After all of everything that happened in June.
I think I'm thinking more about her now than I have.
Than I was in, I guess, May sort of time.
April I was thinking about her, because we broke up on the 1st of April.
April I was thinking about her a fair amount.
And then I think in May, even though I was seeing her quite a lot.
I wasn't thinking about her as much.
And now after she's left, she's gone.
We've kind of cut contact and everything's gone fucking tits up.
And things kinda ended on actually quite bad terms.
Now I'm thinking about her all the time.
Not all the time, but a lot.
And my feelings are just constantly bouncing back and forth between deeply hurt and angry and disappointed and sad.
And yeah, like, fuck you kind of thing.
I don't want to see you again.
I don't want to see you so badly for being really unfair.
Just like a general kind of fuck you.
And between that and I miss you so fucking much.
I'm thinking about you a lot.
Every time I go on a walk with someone we've been, I see you.
I can almost feel you there with me.
And I've just had to pause for a while.
I'm going to have to pause again in a minute probably.
I miss you so much.
I'm spending a lot of time thinking about, because it's not resolved,
it's kind of in this up in the air space where we haven't decided.
Where we're just going to end it and not talk to each other anymore and move on.
But we also haven't decided to, that we're definitely going to see each other again.
It's fucking tiring and painful.
I'm finding myself thinking about going back over and thinking about the ways that she hurt me
and trying to process that and think about...
I'm going to pause this for a bit because I'm about to be next to a fucking busy road.
Yeah, I'm just thinking a lot.
I'm finding myself thinking, not constantly but often,
about what we could have done differently.
About trying to come to terms with what happened, how things have played out.
Trying to get a bearing, I guess, on my feelings around us all and my feelings towards Holly
and my feelings towards my thoughts about the things she has said
and whether we could actually work.
I think there's a part of me that's still holding onto the hope that we might be able to get back together
but at the same time really deeply hurt and I almost don't want to.
It's really confusing.
I need some fucking help to process it, I think, which is why I've contacted a few therapists.
It seemed like it was going so well, our breakup.
It was hard and painful but it felt like we were doing...
we were amicable and we'd ended things on good terms
and we were both wanting to continue our relationship.
We both understood that we needed to do this and this was weird that we weren't working
and we weren't right for each other, at least right now.
Then a couple of weeks later she completely fucking 180'd
and it's like she'd forgotten everything.
I don't understand, to be honest.
I'm having a hard time understanding what the fuck happened
and then every time we talked it just seemed to get worse and worse and worse
and we seemed to get more and more hurt and more and more and further and further apart.
There is a part of me that wants to, to be honest, it's a small part of me now.
The part of me that wants to be with her has shrunk after all of this.
But there is a part of me that still thinks, still kind of plays around with the idea
that it's definitely the minority part of me.
But there is still a part that plays with the idea that maybe I should move down to Melbourne at some point
and try again, see if what she's talking about is actually the case.
That she thinks that we can make it work in a more kind of separated, independent way.
I don't know, I don't even know if I want that anymore.
It's really fucking hard to tell.
And at the beginning it was clear, I was clear that this was the right thing to do.
And I wasn't really hurt, I was just, it just was, it was something that was happening
and I think I felt like it was the right thing for both of us.
I felt like both of us felt like it was the right thing for both of us.
And I felt like we were both okay with it.
That we'd come to an understanding that it was mutual.
That just changed so heavily in such a short amount of time.
And things have just spiralled down since then.
And the communication around that was so fucking difficult.
It was so hard to communicate about.
Because the whole period was so confusing, just knowing what to talk about and what not to talk about.
We were trying to avoid talking about things, but we were also trying to talk about things.
Like fuck, it was a nightmare.
So now I'm just stuck thinking about it all the time, trying to work out what the fuck happened.
It's like it made sense before.
It made sense and I was happy with it and I was okay with the outcome.
Well, I don't know if I was happy with it.
I was okay with the outcome and it made sense.
And now it doesn't.
And now I'm not okay anymore.
And now I'm trapped in between wanting to talk to her and resolve all of this and make things okay.
Which I think that's probably one of the biggest things I need to talk to the therapist about.
That desperate desire for things to be okay.
For us to come to an understanding and understand each other and move on.
Together, I guess.
Move on amicably or something.
Just for things to be okay.
And that is not in between that and being desperately fucking overwhelmed by it all and to avoid it.
And just not being able to deal with it anymore.
And constantly pushed and pulled in between those two.
It's fucking difficult.
I kind of cope by just trying to get on with life, I guess.
Fuck, it's hard.
I need to talk to somebody about this.
I think the other part of how I'm coping is making plans.
It's like when I don't know what's happening.
When things don't make sense.
When I'm feeling unhappy.
I start making plans and hopes.
I start planning and hoping.
I start thinking of better futures, things I might do to make my life better.
Thinking about how I'm going to feel when I quit my job and how I can take control of my life a little bit.
How things aren't the way I want them to be and what I can do to change that.
How things might look in the future and how I might feel in the future.
Thinking about vicariously experiencing future enjoyment and excitement about going to Scotland.
And then usually it ends up being the case that the actual doing the thing doesn't actually feel the way I like the excitement.
I'm actually more excited about it.
The feelings I have about it are more nicer.
I'm the lead up to it and the actual thing doesn't live up to it.
I don't know.
But I do this a lot.
I start thinking about the future and planning and trying to fix things.
My brain's kind of just a jumbled mess at the moment.
Pushed and pulled in between all these different feelings and needs.
Thinking about excitement about going to Scotland next year.
Wondering if that's the right thing to do.
Feeling sad about the fact that Holly's not going to be there with me.
Being excited.
It was part of me that was fantasizing about hooking up with Miranda.
This lady I'd known for fucking like three weeks.
I barely know.
That's not why I didn't friend her on Facebook for that.
I friended her because I was going to be living soon and I do want to maintain that relationship.
But there's a better part of me that I don't like.
But I have to learn how to stop judging that and be compassionate towards it because it makes sense that I feel like that.
Given that I've had, basically, Holly is the only real opportunity I've ever had to have anything like that.
I kind of want to have that experience of casual hookups and stuff.
Oh, fucking hell.
I've been finding myself even just in the last fifteen minutes.
Actually mostly in the last little bit.
Thinking about Miranda hooking up with her.
I'm finding I'm judging myself a great deal for that.
Thinking how it would make me feel.
Thinking how it would make Miranda feel.
Thinking how it would make Holly feel.
But at the same time still fantasizing about it.
I'm just on the bus and chatting her up.
To be honest, fantasizing about having sex with her.
I mean, don't seem to be okay with that.
I think I maybe have struggled with that for a while.
Like, just wanting to have sex with women.
It's like I feel bad about it.
I feel bad about wanting to have sex.
I think I often feel like the other person's not going to want me.
Actually, I think that's a very common feeling for me.
I think whichever therapist I end up seeing, they probably need to be one of the ones that has some background in sex-related stuff.
Also, I think I should really actually probably be focusing on this.
Get out of this job as quick as I can.
Get a two to three day a week job so I can keep myself going.
And focus on this.
I think it's actually the most important thing for me to do with my time.
This is probably some real growth I can go through here.
And I think if I also have the opportunity to kind of get stuck at the same time if I don't process it.
I'm respawning because I'm walking behind somebody else and I wouldn't want them to hear me.
Yeah, I think this could end up with me getting stuck in this place or not dealing with it and just kind of pushing it down and it festering and causing all sorts of fucking damage.
Or it could end up in a very healthy way.
And I want to make it the healthy way.
And I think that requires time and effort and mental process and therapy and guidance.
I think that's actually the most, like that's what I wanted to do with this year really.
That's what this year was supposed to be about.
It wasn't about saving, it was about saving money a bit, but it wasn't about saving as much as I am now.
It was about taking the time to rest, enjoy myself a bit, decompress, grow, do some of this mental work.
This work, I guess, healing work.
And maybe explore some things like some hobbies and shit.
That's really what this life review was supposed to be about.
And the year's half way through and none of that's really happened.
Fucking work, God it eats your life.
You end up feeling so pulled into it.
You internalise all this societal bullshit.
Telling you to be a good worker, do the right thing.
It's not the right thing for you.
It's the right thing for a fucking impersonal bureaucratic business that really just all it cares about is making money.
As much as it can care about anything.
It's very hard to stand up for oneself once sometimes when societal norms are so fucked.
I think I'm actually really quite deeply sexually repressed.
I was just thinking about how sometimes I fantasise about holding someone and pulling them into me and fucking them.
Which is I think is actually part of why I really enjoyed lying behind Holly.
That position.
And then I was thinking, I wonder if that means I'd actually really enjoy rope play for the other person.
Like tying them up and holding them to me and swinging them into me with a rope and fucking them.
And then I thought about the times that we had done rope, a little tiny bit of the tiniest amount of rope play with Holly.
Holly and I.
And how out of my depth and weird that made me feel.
Boy oh boy.
I've got a lot of something going on.
A lot of something to do.
I think I get a bit obsessed sometimes with this idea of holding myself back from what I really want.
Because it's the right thing to do.
Particularly when it comes to sex.
I've kind of almost fetishised this.
The thing that I like, I'm a good person.
I'm the kind of person who I'm so good that I repress myself kind of thing.
That person doesn't have their lights on.
I'm so good that I manage to resist my temptations to fuck.
And then that's like exactly what, I can't remember what it was that I was reading recently, but something that related.
I think it was actually fucking Mark Manson.
Relating morality to like willpower to rationality or something like that.
The ability to resist one's own quote unquote "baser" nature.
[Sigh]
