It's 4.26pm on Thursday the 8th of June. I'm on my way home from work and I really want
to quit my job. Every day I'm like a day closer to just fucking walking out. I'm so over it.
So over this fucking job. I think I would struggle. Honestly I think I'm going to struggle
with basically any full time job. I struggle in Korea. Full time work is just fucking exhausting
and takes up so much of your life. But this job in particular I'm just like I'm bored
shitless. I don't care about anything I'm doing. Like I just I want out. It's not enough
money for what I'm doing for the level of fucking boringness. I want out. I'm finding
it so hard to care about anything. And honestly at this point even if I was working four days
a week I don't think I would change anything. I could be mildly more tolerable but I would
rather work two or three days a week and just have enough money to get by for a little bit
while I do some applied courses in practical skills and programs and stuff that I need
to actually get the kind of work I maybe want to do with slightly more research assistant
work. But honestly right now it's kind of just feeling like work in general is just
fucking fucked up. I'm in a very anti-capitalist mood this afternoon. Driving home surrounded
by fucking finished work after spending all day grinding away at saying I do not give
a fuck about it. It doesn't pay me enough around surrounded by people I don't really
care about all that much. They're nice. I do like some of them but I would not be bothered
if I never saw any of these people again. Completely uninteresting, unengaging. Like
honestly actively bad for the planet. Kind of goes against my values. Completely underappreciated,
under fucking overworked. And then drive an hour home through fucking traffic for what
should be a half hour trip to then get two hours to fucking play some game that I'm consuming
because I don't have much else to do. I have no time to fucking do anything else. To then
go back and do the same thing. And driving home surrounded by fucking like every two
feet is another fucking gigantic fucking advertisement blaring out some bullshit that nobody fucking
needs. Just tired. I'm tired of it. I want out and I don't... of the whole thing. Not
just work. The whole fucking thing. And I don't think there is a way out. But I'm also
not okay with just giving in and being like well that's life. You just work until you
die like everybody else seems to. Like so many other people fucking seem to do. Just
because other people do it doesn't make it right. I don't know. I do not know but I definitely
know I do not want to do this for another fucking forty years. Thirty years. Fuck I
hope it's thirty years not forty. If it was less than that. You know like the prospect
of fire still means I need to grind my arse off for like fifteen to twenty years. Doing
basically this. And I would prefer doing something else like research assistant work but honestly
I think after a year that I'd probably end up feeling the same. I think I just have a
bit of an aversion to work in general. And unfortunately society doesn't really leave
you any other options or like society's kind of structured around it. It doesn't leave
you any other options for identity or purpose or value or meaning or any of that shit. It
just grinds you down and tells you that's all you really are. And I'm fucking sick of
it. But anyway regardless. So what am I actually feeling? Regardless I'm probably going to
quit my job. I'm putting in my two weeks notice next week I think. And I don't really
care what anybody else has to say or think. It's my decision.
What am I actually feeling? I'm feeling hopeless. I'm feeling like just really lethargic and
unmotivated and like just like there's a weight on me. I'm just like ugh. Hopeless and like
what's the point? Hopeless, defeated, unmotivated, angry. Like mildly angry to be honest. This
is the way life has to be. I don't know. This is, it's not sad or angry. It's like this
is fucked. But it doesn't really feel like another option. Defeated and helpless I guess.
And like I don't want to do this. What's the emotion for I don't want to fucking do this
anymore but I don't see another option. Physically I feel like a little bit of a lump in the
back of my throat and like a lethargic energylessness and weight over me and like a rock in my chest.
And just like a really like ugh. Really low mood in general. Just like all around there.
Everything's fucked. Copy us. Yeah. So I guess time to quit. And distract myself with some
other bullshit for a bit and then probably quit that too. Ugh.
