It's 10.28am on Sunday the 10th of June. Today's the day that I need to respond to Holly for
emails and it may well be the last time that I talk to her for quite a while. I had to
drop Nick back in Gindley this morning so given that today is a day of facing my feelings,
I thought it made sense to get myself into the right mindset and come past our old place,
come past Dry Through Oxley. I'm currently parked on the side of the road next to the
farm, the boys' farm. There was so much that was tied up in last year. I haven't just lost
Holly. That's more than enough. It feels like I've lost other parts of myself too. There's
so much about last year that didn't go the way I thought it would or the way I wanted
it to. I was so hopeful at the start of last year, the end of the year before and the start
of last year. So excited for so many different things. This farm really represented something
to me. It represented a potential different future, a way of life that I could maybe share
with Holly. And it never really eventuated because last year it was just so difficult.
And I think that opportunity has now passed. I'm working now to make money. That's the
opportunity cost. When you work you lose the opportunity to do other things. And I'm doing
that because I need money. But it's up to coming at the cost of so many other things.
The life I was planning last year is gone. The life I was planning with Holly is gone.
I feel like I've lost so much. Things just did not happen the way they should have. I
mean there is no should. Things never go to plan. Evident and everything around that ended
up being like a fucking flop. I mean it was useful but it... because last year was so
painful. And I feel like I lost so many parts of myself and so much of what I'd been planning
to do, so much of what I was expecting, so much of the future I was thinking about. Going
to Everton, getting into behavioural science and behavioural change, maybe working on the
farm, getting into that with Holly, going down to Melbourne. Being here allows me to
put myself in some ways back into that mindset. I kind of have been in just like a flailing
mindset recently of just trying to cope. Although to be honest that's what the last year was.
It's really painful and sad to me that sitting next to this farm knowing I'm probably never
going to come back here, despite how important it was to me for a while. What it represented.
Knowing that when I drive away today this is probably the last time I'll ever see it.
I have to let that part of me die. And I am. I'm letting the part of myself that built
up over the last three years die. The changes I went through, a lot of those changes have
stuck around but that self that I was developing of, I was interested in permaculture and all
that kind of stuff, that's kind of died. Because it was kind of developing alongside Holly.
It was developing, it was a self I was developing with Holly. Partly because it was related
in some ways to what she cared about, I was desperately interested in it. But that self
only really balsomed in her presence. And then it kind of got crushed last year and
amongst everything else that happened. It was a nascent larval self that life crushed
everything out of it. And now that's probably gone. It's left a mark, it's left changes
in me. But that future, those ideas, I'm probably never going to be interested in permaculture
in the same way. And part of that was because I was with Holly. I was a different self, I
was a particular self with her and I was a self that was becoming interested in those
things not just because of her but because I was supported. Because it unlocked a part
of myself that was there and that blossomed in her presence. And then it got crushed last
year and now I've kind of moved on and had to set it aside and I think I just, the future
I'm thinking about now doesn't include that. God everything feels like it went so wrong
last year. Last year really was the worst year of my life I think. Despite how wonderful
it was in so many ways as well. And that really hurts. I think I'm still grieving so much,
I'm grieving losing Holly, I'm grieving not living with her in Oxley anymore with her,
I'm grieving the farm. This is grief. I'm grieving a lost self. I'm grieving a me that
was forming that I liked, that I was excited about. And that is now kind of just dead.
The me that was with Holly, the me that was moving, going to travel the world with her
and move to the UK with her and live in Melbourne with her and do permaculture with her and
live on a farm with her. The me who wanted to go woofing with her. All those ideas are
just gone. That self is gone. And I liked that me. I didn't really like the me I was
last year. That's part of why I loved Holly. Part of why I loved Holly is the me that she
unlocked. The me that blossomed in her presence. Now I'm going to go park at Oxley Shopping
Centre and take a piss. And relieve that and then I'm going to drive past our old home
together that I'm still in some ways grieving a bit. And then I'm going to drive back to
my parents place and I'm going to spend the day facing these emotions, reading her email
and responding to her and probably talking to her for the last time for a while. Today's
going to be a very painful day. Part of the difficulty I think of giving up, of moving
on from that self from the farm was that it was a real source of meaning and excitement
meant for me for a while in quite a dark time. I was struggling quite a lot that last year
and the year before to be honest in some ways. I remember the day riding off from Holly's
place and standing by the river at UQ and feeling so awful and getting in the car and
driving off and coming and discovering this place. And the first time I came here and
helped it felt like so much possibility and it was a source of self and a source of meaning
that really helped. It really helped me at the time. I was so excited for that and I
was so excited to share it with Holly. The road past where I used to park on the way
to Everton, it reminds me of how difficult our life was last year and the hope and excitement
but also the dashed, the feeling of it not living up, it not panning out and it not being
what I wanted. I'm driving past the platform that I used to walk up to every morning. The
feeling of all of that. Remembering parking in this car park and taking the train out
to Rosewood that day just before everything got so bad. I think this is the right street.
No it's not. So much was difficult last year and so much of that, some of that was situational
but so much of it was because of us. It was a really hard year and that was because of
us. Because of us together and the ways that we didn't work together. The pressures that
we put on each other and that we put on ourselves together and neither of us had the capacity
for that anymore. Yeah here it is. The street I used to park on and run down to catch the
train every day. Being back here, right now I'm mostly remembering the painful times,
the darkness, the heaviness that lay on that I was feeling crushed by. It was a lot last
year was so much. Last year was so difficult. And that's what's really standing out to me
now when I'm back here. God I drove past the shopping centre so many times. It's like yesterday.
It's like I never left. Now I'm parked in the shopping centre. Remembering that the
last time we were here was the day that we were packing up and leaving Oxley. The day
that we hired the truck, the ute and got rid of everything. We came here for lunch and
got rolls and then we drove and picked it up and packed it up and headed back to Mum and
Dad's place. That was the last time we were here and our excitement and hope for the future
at that point. That maybe things would be ok. That maybe we'd get to Melbourne, that
we were going to Melbourne together, that we were excited about the future together.
I was so excited. I'm also remembering driving through here. Driving in I remembered all the
hard times of me coming in after work and doing the shopping and then coming home and
feeling crushed. But I'm also remembering the days going to the markets together. The
weekends, the Sunday mornings going to the markets. And then often I was overwhelmed
and tired but I also enjoyed it. I loved those days. Building that routine together. It's
ok to lean into this but I think today maybe needs to be the last day that I willingly
rip this window open. Part of the reason I loved you is that you, I felt different with
you. You taught me to see the world in a different way. I always wondered. I was always a wondrous
person. But you drew that out of me in a way that never happened before. I felt so supported
to be able to do that. I'd always hidden that part of myself. And with you I felt it
able to blossom. Your love of nature and your curiosity and love for flowers and birds drew
all the same things out of me that were present there. My awe and wonder at the world grew
with you. I carry that with me now. And you inspired me. I don't think I would have your
constant lust for your dreams of starting your own business and your constant lust to
do things your way inspired me as much as I sometimes struggled with it. And your stubbornness
with not just getting a fucking job. It inspired me. I don't think I would have ever started
to think about making a game in the way I did if it wasn't for you. I've always tossed
those ideas around but thinking about it in a way, really considering actually starting
a business to do that and thinking about it in a way that I did. And honestly you introduced
me to Arkham. The card game I'm thinking of would not exist without you. And your passion
and obsession and love and dedication to something that you loved in art inspired me so much.
I honestly don't think that my passion for philosophy would have developed without knowing
you. I don't think it would have developed at least the same way. Your love of literature
and reading. I've never read so much in my life. I've never bought so many books. I barely
have ever gone into a bookstore. You nurtured those parts of myself and they're parts of
me that I love. And they're parts of me that I love to share with you. There's a lot I
love about the person that you made me. I'm just sorry that... I don't know. I'm sorry
that I couldn't be what you needed. I'm sorry we couldn't make it work. I'm sorry I hurt
you so much. You've made my life better in so many ways. And I'm a different person now
because of you. I would never have developed in those ways I don't think. My life has changed
for the better since knowing you. I love you so much and I miss you and I'm so sad at what
we've lost. But I just can't do it anymore. I just can't deal with the pressure and the
pain. It was too much. It was too much for too long and I don't think it's going to go
away anytime soon. And a large part of that is because of my inability to be me. My inability
to accept what I need around you because it hurts you. That's just never going to... That's
just not going to work. And I don't know if that's me being selfish or if that's... How
much of that is what I have to accept of me and how much of that is what I need to learn
to change or adapt to. But I just don't want to feel bad about what I need anymore. I'm
tired of tearing myself to pieces and I'm tired of apologising for what I need. And
I don't feel like I could really be the me that I needed to be. I didn't feel like I
could do what I needed to do. I couldn't accept my needs with you because it hurts you so
much. And I don't see a way to make that work. My needs hurt you and in some ways your needs
hurt me. And despite everything that was so wonderful about our relationship and all the
other things that were problems that we could fix, I can't see a way to fix that. And everything
we've had talked about, all of your emails recently have just confirmed that for me.
And it's the worst feeling in the world that so much was right and this one thing stops
us from working. I mean it's not just this one thing, there's other things, but I think
this is the biggest thing and I think it's the unresolvable thing. I'm holding on to
hope in so many ways that we could have gotten, that maybe in the future we might be able
to find our way back to each other and overcome it. But I think it's unlikely. And I don't
think it's fair on either of us to wait for each other or to spend our lives hoping for
that to change. Because we might be waiting forever. And neither of us should be doing
that. I can't do it. I can't go back to our past, our place. It's just going to hurt too
much. Driving out of that parking lot, it felt like, I was right back, it felt like
last year it felt like I was driving home to her. I was driving home to you to our place
together and I'm not. I'm driving home to an empty house. And this has torn the wind back
open but that will tear it open too much because I'm still grieving that. Not only am I grieving
the ending of our relationship, when we left I was grieving that house together and that
life together that we had. And I'm still grieving that. It's just too much grief. I can't do
that. And then go home to an empty house where you're not there and put my life back together.
Driving back this way, down the road, heading towards Jindali. It feels like no time has
passed. Like I'm leaving our place and heading over to Mum and Dad's to see them for the day
but I'm not. It's like I've jumped out of the life I've been building, the life I've
been getting used to or building for myself over the last few months and I've jumped straight
back to last year. It's terrifying. It's like fucking my mind knowing that I'm going home
to just, that's actually where I am now. It feels wrong. It feels like I should be going
in the other direction. It feels like I'm leaving home to go somewhere else right now.
I can't do it. It's too painful. At night sometimes I still reach out to the empty side
of the bed beside me and can almost feel you there. Sometimes I hope that I'll put my hand
out and you'll be there and you never will be again. I don't want you to hurt but I think
I maybe need to start taking, what is it, what's the word, actually listening to all
of the advice out there about cutting contact and that your emotions aren't my responsibility
anymore and the same back the other way. We've been trying to hold on to those things because
we can't extricate that but I think for us to both, for both of us to heal and move on,
we need to accept that we need to do that. So after this weekend, well kind of, maybe
not quite after this weekend, like this weekend maybe the end of the process or the start
of the process but really when you respond, when you respond after that I think it's maybe
time to start trying to move on. Which means not talking to each other anymore for a while.
We've already unfriended each other on everything, or you've unfriended me on a thing. I think
I should maybe unfriend you on Goodreads. I would like to add you again at some point
but and I don't want this to be goodbye forever because you are important to me and I want
to have you in my life in some capacity but I think I need to start moving on and I think
you need to too and I think that means removing reminders of each other and not seeing each
other anywhere and just not talking to each other and just trying to get on with our lives
because otherwise we're just going to keep ripping this wound open and it will take forever
to heal. I think we're both holding on because neither of us quite wants to admit that this
is definitely it. But I think for now it maybe has to be. At least for a few months. I don't
know. Part of me doesn't want to do that. Part of me wants to leave something open.
Part of me wants to leave it open that you might be able to convince me after you've
had a chance to respond to what I'm going to say here. Or that I might have some moment
of insight and say and think oh actually no we could make this work if we did this instead.
But I just can't see a way for that to work and the longer we keep holding onto this the
longer we're going to keep hurting and the longer it's going to take for us to heal and
be able to move on with our lives. But I also don't want to never see you again. I don't
want to. I want to have you in my life in some capacity. You know you said that so many
times throughout the process of us kind of coming apart last year and it meant a lot
to me every time and I felt the same and I wasn't lying. I just need a break and we can't
force it. We can only really I think we can only do it when it doesn't hurt. When it's
not ripping the wound open anymore. And that might take a while. So this might be by for
a while. But I really really won't want it to not be by forever. I do want to sit with
you in Melbourne and hear everything about how everything's going. I want to hear about
your life. I want to tell you about mine. But I think right now after this we need time
to heal. None of that means I don't love you at all. If I didn't love you I wouldn't none
of this would have mattered. I would have just moved on. But I'm still crying almost
every fucking day because you were so important to me. We were starting to build a life together
and I saw a future together. What that was starting to come apart last year. And part
of what I'm grieving is giving up that life that I saw together. Which is part of why
this hurts so much. The only way for it to not hurt as much is to get through that hurt
by ripping off the bandaid and saying yes this is it. We are for now and possibly forever
we're done and we need to accept that and cut contact for a while and try to get on
with our lives individually and separately. I don't know if I want to say some of this
stuff until you've had a chance to respond. But I saw a future with you and it was bright
and exciting. But that started to come apart last year because I started to come up against
the fact that our needs just were not aligned. I couldn't give you what you needed and trying
to was hurting me. And I wasn't getting what I needed. You were asking me I just need to
know what you need and what I tried to tell you. And it just hurt you every time. What
I needed was space. What I needed was space and time to myself. To not be so immersed
in our relationship. In you. I needed you to do the same. And that hurt you every time.
And I just there was no way and I tore myself to pieces around about that. Trying to fit
what you needed and feeling bad about any time I wanted time on my own or getting frustrated
with you or just wanting to not be around you. I was tearing myself to pieces. And I
can't change that. I tried so hard to give you what you needed. It felt like you always
needed time together. You needed my attention and my love and affection to talk about things.
And I tried to give you that as much as I could. But it just never seemed to be enough.
I could never get enough of what I needed. How was I supposed to believe that we could
make a casual or low contact relationship work? How was I supposed to believe that you
could do that when that's not the way that you acted? My experience of our relationship
was you were always needing more of me than I could give. And there is absolutely nothing
wrong with what you need or what you want in a relationship. There's nothing wrong with
that at all and you should never feel bad. Ever. But I wasn't able to give it to you
and I tried so fucking hard. I tore myself to pieces trying to give you what you needed.
I felt so awful and guilty all the fucking time. But I just couldn't. And no matter
what I did it never quite seemed to be enough. And when I tried to stand up for the boundaries
that I needed that hurt you and made you feel abandoned and rejected. And I wish it was
any other way but the last three years have shown me nothing but that. There was glimmers
of something else but that's not really what came through. You wanting independence and
to be able to drive off into the sunset for two weeks at a time and do your art. That's
all I wanted. That's the relationship I wanted and that's not what happened. I think there
is a part of you that still wants that but that's not what comes to the fore. That's
not what came to the fore in our relationship and I'm sorry but I can't believe that that
would happen again. That that would happen. That's part of why I was excited for Melvin
as I thought that would give you that opportunity to explore that facade of yourself. But I'm
done tearing myself to pieces and I think you are too because you also tore yourself
to pieces. You crushed yourself to try and make our relationship work and the reason
for that, the reason we both feel that way is because our needs do not align. And I wish
so much it could be any other way but I just do not see any way to resolve that. You need
somebody who can give you what you need and I don't think it's me as much as I wish anything
else. All I ever wanted was to look after you and for you to be okay and to care for you
and to give you what you needed. It's all I ever fucking wanted. To support you. I wanted
nothing but the best for you. And it hurts so much recognizing that I don't think I can
give you what you need. That I don't think I can be that for you. It's the most painful
thing I've ever experienced. Because it's all I ever wanted. All I ever wanted was to
see you flourish and see you soar and be alongside you to support you through that. And I don't
think I can. I think in so many ways me being there was making your life more difficult.
[Birds chirping]
