It's 7.59am on Saturday the 3rd, I think 3rd of June.
This is not a SEVA, this is just some thoughts.
I'm like 5 minutes from work.
Just been having some thoughts about more stuff to do with Holly and also just kind
of relationships and I don't know, I can't quite summarize my thoughts but the thing
that was really jumping out to me was that thinking back to the way we talked and had
our conversations, I was thinking about feminism and stuff.
Just before this I was thinking about the ways in which the way that we tend to talk
about things, the ways that a lot of people, particularly men, tend to talk about things.
It puts women into this bit player role in this grand story, this grand narrative of
men.
Like Jon was saying, we need more strong men.
Why do we need more strong men?
Surely we just need more good people.
I was thinking about, all this led me to thinking about the way that Holly and I had discussions
and that I always thought that the way that I discussed things was good because I tend
to not insert myself.
I try not to insert myself.
I try not to, I think maybe I partly learned that people don't like it when you try to
preach to them or you're really trying to force your thoughts down their, your ideas
down their throat.
I think I maybe took a more subtle path or I just, I try to ask questions and, although
I'm not always that good at listening, but I try to ask questions and find out more rather
than really necessarily saying what I think, which I think is in a lot of ways a good thing,
but I think I do, it's like all things, it comes with upsides and downsides and it requires
a balance and I think I am too far the other way to the point where I just don't ever put
my thoughts forwards.
And I think at a point it does maybe start to feel like I'm interrogating the person
because all I'm doing is asking questions.
I don't know.
I think part of that was just the dynamic between Holly and I because she, I'm sorry,
but she was really shit at, wow, she was really shit at asking questions.
She just did not know how to do that.
She didn't know how to engage with people from their point of view.
She's so rarely, most of our conversations were her talking about her thoughts and her
side of things and very rarely, to be fair, she didn't really know what, all the time
she didn't really know what she could ask me, but she was just really bad at trying
to explore other people's views and opinions.
She kind of had her own opinion and that's what, she was a bit like a dad to be honest,
a little bit.
She was very good at taking responsibility and when you say no, you're not listening
or you have hurt me, she was very good at listening, but she never really tried to explore
other people's views all that much.
She would just, most of the time when I said stuff she'd just contest me immediately.
Not really like try to understand, didn't really ever feel like she was trying to understand
my thoughts.
She was just like pushing back against them anytime she even slightly disagreed.
So I think that's part of, partly the dynamic between us, part of which is to do with Holly,
but I think also, yeah I do have a tendency to not put my own thoughts or opinions forward
and particularly just kind of probe the other person, question them, try and understand
and listen, but I think maybe sometimes it strays into me just avoiding voicing my own
opinions, particularly when the other person is very vociferous like Holly or Jono and
I think I need, in a relationship I need somebody who doesn't do that.
I need somebody who will, when it comes to discussions, who will actually try to explore
my thoughts and not just put forward their own.
I need to get better at putting those thoughts towards myself.
