I think I'm missing Holly more than almost I ever have right now. My heart hurts so much.
I'm finding myself thinking of just running back down to Melbourne and apologising and
trying to make everything work. What is happening? I was so sure this was the right thing. All
I wanted was to get away. I couldn't deal with it. Fuck. I miss you so much. It's like
my mind can't hold both the good and the bad at the once. It's either all in the bad or
all in the good. Fuck. It hurts. God, it hurts. I want so badly to reach out to her right
now. Just to email her and say I'm sorry about everything. I'm so sorry for everything Holly.
I'm so sorry for hurting you. Fuck. I miss you so much. But I also at the same time still
feel like angry and hurt and like I don't want to do it. It's just a mess. I want to
reach out to you so badly. I just want to hear your voice. And I'm terrified of it at
the same time. I don't want to deal with this at the same time and I just want to be next
to you. It's so confusing. I'm thinking about flying down just so I can come and see you.
Just so I can resolve this. Fuck. This is so hard. It's the first time I've thought about
that. I haven't thought about coming to see you at all. I've been thinking about not doing
it in fact. Now I'm thinking about just coming down as soon as I finish my uni, my work.
Coming down for a few days just to...
Just realized the day after Jeremy's fattiest Holly's birthday.
Fuck.
I need to see a therapist about this right now. As soon as possible. I can't wait anymore.
I just realized that how things have played out with Holly is probably the biggest regret
of my life. I was just thinking about... I've been idle fantasy about dying. Just dying,
you know, getting cancer or something, just dying, going through the process of dying.
And what I would... and that I'd want to let Holly know and that I couldn't call her or
all I could do would be email her. What would I say? All I could say would be "I'm so sorry.
I'm so fucking sorry. I'm so sorry for so many things. I'm so sorry I can't get through my own
hurt and anger. I'm struggling so much with it. I don't want to be angry at you. Never did."
I never ever wanted to be angry at you. I've hurt you. But I'm so hurt and I'm so angry
and I've hurt you so much. And I would not want... if I was to die tomorrow, I would not want
this to be the way things end between us. I don't know if I could... I don't think I can leave it
like this. I think I will regret it for the rest of my life if I do. I don't know what that means,
but maybe it's just in this moment. I don't think so. I don't think it is in just this moment.
I think most of my moments I'm just trying to ignore pain and fear pushed aside. And also just,
yeah, my brain succumbs to obsession and it takes over my mind. I don't want things... I don't want
this to be the end of us. I don't want things to end this way. What does that mean though?
I'm thinking about Miranda and thinking about...
part of me has been thinking that I should... I want to try and
connect with her more and talk to her more and maybe get... have something casual with her.
Even just saying that aloud makes me feel slightly sick.
It's like, that's the thing I want and she's a vehicle for me to do that.
And that's wrong. Don't use her as a salve for your pain, Michael.
It's not right.
She's a person, not something to use to make yourself feel better.
But I can't deny there's a part of me that wants... I want companionship, I want that opportunity.
It's like I feel like I've been denied those opportunities my whole life and I want that.
I want it so badly.
And that's part of what led to the breakup with Holly. Why I was feeling the way I was.
Why I was kind of feeling okay with the breakup because I was kind of excited to take what I'd
learned in my time with Holly and apply it elsewhere.
I need to find somewhere in between judging myself and taking responsibility.
That's really hard to do because I definitely tend towards judging myself.
So it's hard to take responsibility without judging myself and in judging myself it's then
harder to take responsibility.
Particularly when it comes to stuff to do with relationships and sex. I judge myself extremely
harshly. I'm kind of disgusted by myself in that regard.
Thinking about that, thinking like that about Miranda.
It's literally like my brain's using her as a tool. I wasn't even thinking about her in that
way until like today or the day before and suddenly my brain switched to being like "oh
that could work".
And that's, if Holly and I ever do get back together, that's going to be underlying things.
The fact that I've never had those opportunities.
So you're probably underlying, you'll be there in almost any relationship.
I'm just going to try to find a way to get back together.
You'll be there in almost any relationship.
It's a part of myself I really don't seem to like, but it's also a part of myself I
kind of can't seem to get rid of and I don't know if I should.
I think I need to learn to accept it. The need underlying it I guess.
That's definitely something to talk to a therapist about.
