It's 12.54am on June 1st, the 1st of June. I'm on my lunch break at the moment.
Holly sent me a couple of emails this morning in response to what I texted her yesterday.
A very large email.
Um, I don't know. It hurts so much.
It hurts so much. There's so much misunderstanding and pain on both sides.
There are quite a few things she's saying that are completely accurate and fair and make me feel absolutely gutted that I made her feel that way.
Or that I did things that made her...
You know, the fact that I didn't read anything about the PTSD right up until the very end of our relationship.
Um, there's a few things in shit there that she said that I don't actually understand.
She said, "You lied to me and built my hopes up to dash them against the hopes of the rocks of social services."
I don't know what she means about that, so I can't... The fact that she thinks I lied to her hurts, but I can't really respond because I don't know what the fuck that is.
What she means. And there's quite a few other things that are just not fair at all.
And make me so angry.
It's like too... It's too much feeling at once.
I'm so angry and so sad and so disappointed in both of us.
And so disappointed that things turned out like this.
I feel ashamed and I feel so fucking angry at her.
I just... I'm so desperately sad. I just want her to understand.
I just want to cry so bad.
But I'm at the mat to fucking get back to work.
Fuck.
I can't read it again today. I'm going to have to take a couple of days to respond.
What am I actually feeling?
I hope I've appended this to the right one.
Yeah, I did.
What am I actually feeling physically?
I'm feeling a giant knot in my... It's actually faded a little bit now.
But I was feeling a lump in my throat and a giant knot in my chest.
I'm still feeling quite a large knot and pain in my chest, like right in my solar plexus.
Um...
I'm...
I'm angry. I'm so angry.
I'm so sad.
I'm incredibly sad. I'm really hurt.
I'm really disappointed.
I'm...
Um...
I feel hopeless a little bit.
I want to cry.
I feel scared. I want to reach out to her.
I want her... I don't want to stop until this is resolved.
I want things to be okay. I don't want to stop until things are okay.
But I think that's just making things worse.
I want to reach out to her so bad.
I'm a bit worried. I'm a bit worried about being able to do work.
I'm a bit anxious or scared about that.
I'm exasperated and kind of just want to move on.
Um... I'm disappointed in myself. I'm disappointed in her.
I'm disappointed in the outcome.
I... I'm...
It hurts so much that this is how things ended.
After all of that.
And that she's so hurt and that she doesn't understand me.
I just can't make myself understood.
That distance between us. I just can't close it.
It hurts so much.
That distance hurts.
I just want that distance to close.
I don't want any distance between us.
