I have been suppressing so much of my feelings.
Mum and Dad are gone for the day today.
It's the first day of my unemployment.
It's the first day of not having work since Holly and I broke up.
First day I can actually stop and force myself to confront things.
My emotions and my thoughts and feelings just don't make sense.
I am reading back through our old texts to confront the things that we talked about.
And it hurts so much.
It hurts so much.
Not two minutes ago I was thinking about the ways our relationship didn't work.
Thinking about the fact that the way she expresses things about men and feminism just makes me feel uncomfortable.
It makes me feel like our values are different around those things.
Now after reading this, it's like none of that mattered.
Although now that I've talked about it again it kind of does.
I have been suppressing my feelings without knowing it.
It just keeps happening. I don't know how to not do it.
I don't know how to feel for me. I don't know how to get through life.
Fuck.
Fuck.
Oh fuck.
I just don't feel like I can keep up. I don't feel like I can do all the things I need to do.
That society tells me I need to do.
I don't know what to do.
I've just toured in so many different directions.
Maybe Holly's right. Maybe we could make it work if we weren't living together.
But I'm not excited about being with her. I'm not excited to talk to her.
I'm just confused and hurt and sad. I'm broken hearted.
I'm terrified of going through all of that again and hurting Holly.
And I can't resolve the problems.
Our differences around needs for talking.
She always seems excited to talk to me and I'm not excited to talk to her.
But then sometimes I am.
Terrible hygiene habits which freak me out. But then when it comes to this I don't care.
But then at the moment I do.
The money stuff.
I don't want to go to Melbourne.
I don't line up with my needs but that means we have to do long distance.
I don't really want to be talking. But then sometimes I do.
I don't want to hurt and confuse her.
I don't know how to resolve that. There's a hole inside of me that wants to be filled with experiences I haven't had.
Having sex with multiple people. Getting out into the world.
Having multiple relationships. All those things.
There's part of me that wants to do all of those things because I feel like I've missed out and never got to do those things.
But then when it comes to doing them I'm terrified and don't want to do them.
All these different things pulling me in different directions and I don't know what to do.
And I don't want to hurt Holly.
And I'm terrified that maybe we should be back together.
We actually should be together.
And I don't know how to deal with all of this stuff and process it all.
Live.
Live life.
Life is just non-stop and endlessly fucking overwhelming.
I understand Holly.
Work takes over my life.
It takes over everything that matters and I feel like I have no space to be me or to feel my emotions or to deal with anything.
Life just gets in the way.
And I don't have to do anything about that.
And I also can't seem to get rid of the feelings of frustration I have.
And dealing with all of this costs money.
God, it's all so hard.
I don't know if this is a manufactured memory.
But I think when I was quite young, Jamie might have given me shit for crying and told me that I was trying to get attention.
It might be completely manufactured and I'm struggling to hold onto the details.
But I have a deep, very deep recollection of something to do with me and crying and Jamie getting angry at me and saying I was trying to get attention or sucking up.
That would make a lot of...
It would definitely contribute to why I don't feel safe crying.
