So I'm listening to a bit more Dear Clementine and I just... she's such a...
I don't know, a confusing figure maybe? I don't know. There's so many things she says
that are like, yep, fair or abso-fucking-lately but then she just takes it a step further
a step too far and yeah, just... she's so ready to...
I don't know. There is so much scorn and derision in her way she presents herself
towards men.
Um...
Yeah, she's...
the way she says things...
she just jumps... I don't know how to... it's like jumping to conclusions.
She just asserts things and like she's talking about Jonah Hill's ex...
it's an episode on Jonah Hill and like basically people who use therapy and
emotionally enlightened speech to...
Um...
This is um...
It's a manipulator I guess and she's talking about how Jonah Hill's ex put up
texts from him basically outlining what he was calling his boundaries which are
like a laundry list of rules that are like, don't go to lunch with this person
and don't go to lunch with these types of... these people and yeah, all sorts of stuff.
Um...
Yeah, and she says...
She says he's... Clementine says that Jonah says he's being vulnerable but she
says it in a way that is so like dripping with fucking scorn.
Like he's being vulnerable kind of thing.
And it's like we know other than this text, we know nothing about this
relationship, we know nothing of the inside of this relationship at all and
now we're publicly you know dissecting this private text and yes the borders
between exposing manipulative manipulators and keeping people's private
text and shit is hard because it's like that's... it's a hard question to answer.
But we know nothing, we know almost nothing about this relationship or the
inside of this relationship and yet Clementine Ford is comfortable.
You know, it sounds like she's insinuating that he's... well I don't really know
what it sounds like she's insinuating, it's just she's heaping scorn on this
obvious idea of him being as vulnerable as possible.
Like... yeah, I don't know.
And maybe he was, like that's the thing, we don't fucking know, we don't know if
what was happening other than this, we can extrapolate based on this text of
what was happening but... and it's probably a pretty decent chance that our
extrapolations are right, that her extrapolations are right to some extent
but we don't know... like...
we don't... there's so little we don't know, so little we know and yet where she's...
we don't know if he was trying to be vulnerable, we don't know...
etc etc etc and the fact that she acts in such a derisive manner
to so much uncertainty, she like jumps straight to certainty and the certainty is
the man is bad.
And the fact that Holly is like
really... this is like... Clementine Ford is like a thought leader for Holly basically,
like Holly was consistently watching, you know, talking about her views, going to
see her... yeah, that worries me a bit because it kind of for me shines a
light on the ways Holly was acting and the ways that I disagreed with her
because Holly in some ways acted a bit similarly to... she also jumped to
conclusions and jumped to certainty and with that it certainly assumed the man
was bad kind of thing.
Um...
Yeah, and that really kind of puts me off. I'm kind of really dwelling on that
side of things like that was a part of her that I really struggled with and I
think it's a way in which our values are fundamentally different. There is a
reason that I really struggle with radical feminists. It's this basically,
not exactly this but it's this is, you know, a big part of it.
Just the language that is used and I don't know, it's hard for me to work out
but
I think it goes, it's at odds with my values of like trying to understand.
Principle of charity, giving people the benefit of the doubt, trying to
understand where they might be coming from rather than just "no, man bad".
Which is an oversimplification but yeah, it just, it brings up to me all the
times that Holly acted in line with that which I just felt really uncomfortable
with. Made me very uncomfortable and to be honest when I think about it makes me
balk at the idea of getting back together with her because I think that
is a major incompatibility between our values.
I don't know.
I don't know.
[Sounds of a car being towed]
