I'm reading page 192 of Rene Brown's Daring Greatly and she's talking about
shame in organizations and what it looks like, how to notice it and the
effects it has on the people involved and reading this it seems I think I
part of the reason I quit was feeling shamed. I think the environment became one
of shaming and I disengaged and quit. I think I need to think about that a little
bit more actually. Read this page again. I think shame has become really
quite endemic in this current period we're in of high polarization and
cancel culture and extreme outrage. People are trying to shame each other all
the time and undercut things and yeah it's just getting worse. Page 195 is
about blame and shame in relationships and it's both really interesting on the
macro scale of how our society is operating but I think maybe it might have
happened in our relationship. I think she puts it really well here. From blame come
shame and then hurt, denial, anger and retaliation. I think in some ways it's
exactly what happened in Holly and I's relationship. On page 197 she talks about
feedback and how feedback is really important more so than far more so than
just you know grades or anything. She puts it really well here. The problem is
straightforward. Without feedback there can be no transformative change. We don't
talk to the people we're leading about their strengths and their opportunities
for growth to begin to question their contributions and our commitment.
Disengagement follows. I think it's exactly what happened to me at work. She
goes on to talk about where the fact that that feedback, the lack of feedback kind
of arises from largely two things. People not being comfortable with hard
conversations and people not being not knowing how to give and receive
feedback properly. Well not properly but in a way that moves people and
processes forward. Again that's what happened at work. I never sat down and
had that conversation. They never had sat down and had the
conversation with me. We avoided, we all avoided the hard things and I didn't get
any feedback. And then she goes on to talk about how it's not about getting
comfortable with hard conversations it's about normalizing discomfort. You know
growth and feedback requires discomfort and you have to get used to that
basically. You have to lean into it. On page 201 she talks about how feedback is
difficult for, also difficult for the person giving the feedback and that felt
really relevant, really really relevant to me in the relationship with Holly.
You know I was so scared of talking to her about things that I'm struggling
with and that's feedback for her basically. I think some of that I'm reading page 202
at the moment about different ways we armor up against when giving feedback. I
think some of the emotional dynamics she's talking about in this book are really
important and critical and like really important to the things I value about
understanding people and understanding their perspectives and you know the
things I get frustrated with other people about for not doing. You know she
talks about anger being easier than vulnerability. You know rationing up our
self confidence with self-righteousness kind of thing. I see that play out all
the time and she talks about self-righteousness as being a sign that
she's afraid. It puts it really well here. It's a way to puff up and protect myself
when I'm afraid of being wrong, making someone angry or getting
blamed. I think that happened a lot in my relationship.
you
