This is the first SEVA I've done in a bit. I'm probably not going to follow quite the
normal format, but I just want to get my feelings down. So, my parents are fucking driving me
nuts, basically. And honestly, I think it's mostly actually Dad. I mean, I don't really
interact with Mum all that much. But, just, they're both, but particularly Dad is always
fucking there. Constantly fucking there. And I'm just, I'm just, I'm just, I'm just
like, wants to talk. And he comes and knocks on my door like four or five times a night.
Like, molded, like, it feels like every fucking ten minutes or so he's coming in to just
say nothing to me. It's just, I don't know, it's just, I think he's trying to connect
with me, but I just don't, I don't want it at the moment at all. Which I think, tells
me that I just, I probably shouldn't be living with them. I'm probably at that point in my
life where I need some distance from my parents. And I found my relationship with my parents
much better when I was living out of home and was coming to see them. I was feeling
quite connected to them, actually. But, I don't like the way that they live. I don't
like the way that they do things in their house. Just, yeah, the way they live their
lives, the decisions they make, the things they do in their house, their fucking ridiculous
level of cleanliness and, um, anal-ness. And just, dad, I don't know, it's like, none of
the conversations I have with him are ever like anything. They're just, everything he
says to me is just like, "Go away." Like, making a joke or something. Like, there's
no, it feels like there is no, I think he wants there to be and I think at some point
I want there to be. I don't right now. I just want to be fucking away from them. But, um,
yeah. I don't know what it is. I don't know what's, I mean, dad, they've, they've, they've
both, but particularly dad have always annoyed me a bit, living in their place, but since
living at a home, living, since living with Molly, um, just, they're, they're fucking,
I don't know, I think, I think it's also, I haven't lived at home since dad retired,
which I think is a big part of it as well. Um, yeah, I think, I don't know, I don't know
how much of this is just me being super fucking antisocial at home, uh, cause, you know, I
didn't really ever want to talk to Holly all that much at home. I never really wanted to
talk to Jayden all that much at home. Um, yeah, I don't know. And now, like every morning
dad is there. I, I, I, like, you know, he's just, ugh, the shit they do, like, unlocking
the door for me and locking it behind me every morning. That should be a lovely thing, but
for some reason it just fucking pisses me off. And even when I tell him, tell him, don't
worry about it, he just gets up and does it. I'm not a fucking child. For fuck's sake.
He thinks he's just being, he is just trying to be helpful. Because, you know, he understands
that work, getting to work on time is a fucking pain in the ass. But, like, every time, I,
I, like, I can't be in the same room as him and him not try and, like, talk to me about
just fucking nothing. Fucking hell. It's really hard because I feel like I also need, um,
I need, I need to live there at the moment. It feels like I need, I probably need to explore
why that is, what that feeling is coming from, but it's like, you know, I feel so overwhelmed
by full-time work. And I need to save, like, I have this desperate need to save money.
And start actually, you know, like, I'm 32 and I have, like, $30,000 in super, and I've
got, like, $10,000 to my name at most, and most of that's my emergency savings. You know,
that's not a bad financial position to be in, but it's not the financial position I want
to be in at 32. And I feel like the only way I can do that and not, you know, like, I can't,
to do that, to save the kind of money I need to save and, um, live out of home, I need to
work full-time. And I find that really fucking overwhelming. Particularly when it's working
full-time in something I don't really want to do or don't care about. And then to try
and work out what the fuck I'm trying to do with myself and what to do next. As well as
try and work on some of my mental health stuff, which I feel like I just don't have the fucking
time, I don't have the mental capacity to do after working full-time. Um, yeah, I feel
like I can't do all of those things and work full-time. So my only, it feels like my only
option is to live at mum and dad's place for a bit and work less than full-time, if that's
four days a week, so that I can still save money, but still have enough time, a little
bit of enough spare time to do some of the things I need to do and want to do. Um, just
fucking so overwhelmed all the time. So I feel stuck. I feel fucking trapped. And a
lot of that comes from fucking work and the incompatibility between that and, you know,
like, I still trapped in between work my need, I don't know if it's a need, but my very strong
desire to, um, gain financial, a better financial position, gain financial independence, really,
is, uh, you know, my need and desire to live a good life and explore some of the things,
you know, explore some of the things I want to do and work on my mental health and grow
as a person. It's like so hard to do all, I can't do all of those things at once and
I feel like I need to do all of them at once. The only option for me, it feels like for
me, is to live at my parents place, but that's fucking driving me nuts and holding me back
in some ways. I feel like I have a better relationship with my parents when I'm not living with them.
Uh, I don't know what to do. Anyway.
