Oh god I'm tired. So it's 11.17pm. I am on my way home from 11.17pm on... I fucking
don't know what date it is. It'll be on the name of the recording I'm sure. Oh. I'm on
my way home Sunday night. I'm on my way to work tomorrow. I'm going to be at work in
like 8 hours I think. So I'm not going to get a good night's sleep tonight.
Um.
Um. Just on my way home. I'm on my way home from seeing Holly. She came up for her mum's
birthday and we caught up tonight. Went to dinner. Went for a walk all around the city.
Yeah. We...
Yeah. A lot. A lot of things.
But anyway. I just want to note down that I, in my time off, I need to think about what
it is about the financial situation we were in that wasn't working for me because if we
were to get back together it would continue. Based on what I was talking to her about,
she's not planning on getting a job any time soon. She would have to be in a career before
we could move to the UK. Um. Yeah. Like.
Financial situation is not going to change particularly quickly. Even though that is
her goal. But it wouldn't change particularly quickly. Um.
And while we were talking about it, it was kind of bothering me and bringing up a little
bit of the feelings I was having before. But I don't... What actually is it about that?
What is it? What was our financial situation? And what was it about that financial situation
that I was having problems with? And what was the problems I was having and what does
that suggest? About my values? About priorities? About... We sat down and talked about... And
Holly was talking about... Um.
Not wanting to get a job, but kind of part of the system.
I was like, yeah, I understand. Um. I'm kind of too tired to do this at the moment and
I'm feeling emotionally overwhelmed. My brain just like fucking shit. Like we were sitting
at... We sat down by the Corso at the end and Holly was taking me through her Melbourne
house and about halfway through I kind of wanted to... I don't know what... I'm not even
quite sure what it was. I think I... I was just getting really tired and like wanting
to go home. But there was also some more emotionality there. It was like... I'm not sure what it
was. But I think it was unfair. Since I was like, I have a feeling you're a bit annoyed
with her or something. I don't know. It's fucking confusing. Whatever I was feeling.
And I felt bad about whatever I was feeling. Um.
[yawns]
Anyway, I'm too fucking tired for this at the moment. Regardless, the point is, it was
a nice... It was mostly a nice meeting. We... It kind of... We reconnected a bit and kind
of got off under like not fixed issues but we kind of um...
We kind of...
Might be able to move on a little bit and like we're not... We haven't ended things
on the note that we were on before. We still need to probably deal with all of that stuff
but yeah. There was a lot of stuff we talked about. Some of it was pretty important and
really good but I'm just too fucking tired. Um. But I think she said it. She said things
she said I think were really important which was that sometimes it's okay to sit in uncertainty
because there's a lot of value in uncertainty. We want, as humans, we want things to be certain.
We want to put them in boxes but there's a lot of value in power in things being uncertain.
A lot to learn. Um. I feel really bad because I like kind of just like turned off. My brain
just turned off and I was like really feeling really emotionally overwhelmed and wasn't
sure what to say and all these things. And it was like a solid ten minutes of basically
almost silence of me just kind of sitting there looking out the window. Um.
Unable to really say anything. Um. And now I feel really awkward and I feel like I'm
being really awkward and weird. I feel like I want to apologise and etc etc etc. But anyway
regardless, the whole point is I think we've cleared things up a little bit. We're both
clear on the fact that um like we would maybe, neither of us is putting us, us doing a relationship
off the table. But I made it very clear that like I'm, I don't know what I want. I'm really
confused at the moment. I don't know what I want or need. Um. And I need a lot of, there's
a lot of processing I need to do. Um. And I think that's okay. And it's okay for it to
be in that stage for a bit. I need to do some processing. I'm not moving down to be with
her. We're not going to have me in a relationship for a while. Um. Yeah. But we do kind of,
we do want to still know each other in some capacity. And I probably will go down to Melbourne
and see her. And that's okay for now I think. I'm feeling bad, a bit bad after how things
ended with that with me like fucking spurging out. But um. Look I actually think that's
a good place to leave it. To be honest.
