I just had probably like an hour to an hour and a half long conversation with Holly
about a fucking lot of things. Basically she was just calling and asking for clarification.
She was really confused about where we were at.
It was painful and sad and I cried a lot. But it was also really good.
I told her, I asked her the thing I asked her about whether she wanted to be friends.
Even if I ended up saying no to us trying again.
I said I really wanted her to think about it because I felt like some of the things she said
showed why she wasn't putting boundaries up that she maybe should be.
She said she thinks she probably was holding on to that.
Basically she has been holding on to us getting back together.
But she said yes, I do want to be friends. I just don't know what that looks like.
And it might be a while before we can get to that point.
She's still desperately in love with me.
But we talked. There were a lot of things.
There's too much to remember what we all thought, all of what we talked about.
But we came to places she has been kind of hanging on, holding on, holding down the fort.
Waiting for me to kind of say yes, I'm coming down. I'm coming to be with her.
And she also thought I was coming down to Melbourne to just come down to Melbourne.
And we were only going to maybe catch up and have coffee.
She didn't actually know that I was coming down to Melbourne pretty much just to see her.
Part of the reason she wanted me to come down to Melbourne was to kind of have some of this talk.
I said I can't clarify things any more than I already have basically.
Because I'm confused and I need to process things I can't process them on my own.
And that might take me a while.
She said I can't keep holding down the fort.
And there's other things I need to focus on.
We've decided we're going to have no contact at all for three months.
We're going to re-initiate contact on the 1st of November.
Or if I have done enough processing that I can talk about some of these things.
It's all still really fucking confusing but I'm really glad we had that conversation.
I'm probably going to have opened the wound up and I'm going to be sad as fuck again for a bit.
Also Holly's not doing so well. She's really struggling. She's very alone down there.
And she's really struggling with family related stuff.
Basically we're not going to have any contact at all.
I'm going to post the journals, poetry books down to her.
We're just not going to contact each other at all unless I have done enough processing to talk about some of these things.
Like what I want.
Basically processing my feelings around things.
I also told her that I felt pretty dismissed last year.
Which is one of the things I need to...
She said she's sorry for that.
And that's probably valid.
I need to process some of those things before I can process some of the things that I need to...
Basically I want to talk to her about some of the ways that I hurt her and let her down.
And we both...
We see things differently.
I see she thinks a lot more of it is related to situational.
A lot of it is us.
But yeah, we're going to...
We initially just had no contact at all for three months.
We need to give each other a break.
A chance to get on with things. Get on with our lives a bit.
Which is what we're going to do.
And I'm going to keep doing what I'm doing.
Try and do some process...
Try and process all these things and then eventually come back to her and talk about all this stuff.
Talk through all this stuff and decide whether we want to move forward or not.
I need to process whether I...
My feelings, my complicated feelings around all this and decide whether I want to be with her or not.
And I need to process my hurt and I need to process her, the ways that I hurt her and let her down.
And she said sorry as well for...
She said that she was very triggered by me saying no.
She had rejection sensitivity. She was triggered by the rejection basically.
And I meant that she didn't act all that well.
That's what she said anyway and she's sorry for that.
So it did clear a lot of things up. It also didn't.
And it kind of made me more confused. Not more confused but it's like...
It had more fly on to it than maybe we could actually make it work.
So yes, kind of more confusing.
But I'm glad we had that conversation because now it's not like this.
We're constantly on the hook.
We have given you... We're just going to give each other space.
I think we both understand enough where we're at.
And if I do end up being with somebody else, I need to let her know.
And after all of that, I feel relieved. Mostly right now.
I mostly feel relieved. I was fucking terrified during the call and also really sad and missing her a fuckload.
Now I'm mostly just relieved.
And sad. It's like a sad relief.
Lethargy. Emotional relief I think.
