6.52am on, I can't remember the date but the fucking file will say it anyway. On my way
to work, this is my SEVA for the day. I've just left home and my dad is, like dad is
just fucking driving me absolutely nuts. Everything, like he just, he has to fucking comment on
everything or talk about everything. Can't just leave me the fuck alone. Fuck. I know
I probably need to talk to him about it and say hey look dad, you don't need to fucking
talk to me about everything. I don't need you to unlock the door for me. I know you're
just trying to be helpful but I feel like you're treating me like a child. I am 32
years old. I can unlock my own fucking door. Like he just did it this morning before I'd
even, as soon as I got up he went and unlocked the door. I can just do it myself. It will
slow me, it will stop me for all of two seconds. You don't have to fucking unlock the door
for me and then close it behind me and unlock it again. And last night, coming in and like
passive aggressive, like not asking for what he actually needs, wants but then like kind
of like talking a hinting act. Like basically they bought a new heater last night which
I didn't ask them to do. They bought two new heaters, one of them for me which I didn't
ask them to do and yeah, bought a new heater, didn't ask them to do it and he came in and
said "Hey have you tried it out yet?" I said "No, I'm sure it fucking works, like it's
a heater". And basically was trying to, I think he was trying to get me to use it before
walking, before like leaving it and walking away because it's new. And like, Holly was
right, he is just, he's fucking anxious, he's anxious about fucking everything. And he just
doesn't, he doesn't realise it. Oh god, they're fucking driving me nuts, it's not them to be
honest, it is dad, it is 90% dad. Dad is fucking driving me nuts. They both treat me like a
child but he is, his mum knows she's fucking anxious and has like a little bit learnt her
kind of curbit and not, I have to force it on other people but dad is just like making
all these passive aggressive requests which just persuades his anxiety. He just won't leave
me alone constantly, like constantly wants to talk and won't leave me alone but also
doesn't know how to fucking ask for anything or have any kind of emotional conversation
at all. So it's just constantly him like saying nothing, he just keeps having these conversa-
what the hell is happening? Oh that one. He just keeps having these like nothing conversations
with me. Where he just like comments on stuff or like cracks some shitty joke that- look
I'm, he's just trying to connect I think. Because he's almost 70 and we don't really
have that much of a connection but he's, I don't want to connect with him right now.
I think I'm at a phase in my life where I want to be fucking miles away from him. I
want to be not treated like a fucking child anymore. It probably means I need to move
out, let's be honest. If I'm going to live at their place rent free I probably kind of
need to just deal with it and it's really hard because I feel like I need to do that
but I also really don't want to do that.
[cough]
