I don't really know what to say here. I feel like I should do one of these, do a voice
journal, given the emotional impact of what happened yesterday with Holly and how I'm
feeling now. I am now feeling more, and you know, learning to sit with this feeling that
things are okay, where I am right now is okay, what I'm doing right now is okay, nothing
needs to really change all that much, I'm doing what I need to do, I just need to buckle
up for the process and basically keep doing what I'm doing. You know, like, Holly and
I are not going to have any contact until, for about three months, until November. That's
plenty of time to do some of the mental health work I need to do to see my therapist, to
process some of these feelings, to process, you know, the biggest thing I want to process
with our relationship is my feelings around the money side of things and Holly not working,
because I need to process that and understand what I'm feeling and where I'm coming from
and my values around it, if we're ever going to get back together, and if we don't get
back together, I still want to know those things, I want to understand why I feel that
way, what's actually happening there, what's important to me, what that's telling me. So
that's the biggest thing I need to process. But after our talk yesterday, I still need
to want to talk about some of those things, but Holly kind of validated a few of the problems
I had. Doesn't mean that the problems would just go away, but... which does make me feel
a little bit like, well, maybe we actually could make it work, but there's still the
underlying problem of the Centrelink stuff and the money stuff and feeling like I can't
rely on her. But, anyway, things feel a little bit topsy-turvy this morning because I'm now
more, not more confused, but I'm more, I'm less sure that I was edging more towards not
getting back together, and now I'm back the other way a bit. I'm like, oh fuck, I don't
know, I'm more in limbo than I was before. But that's okay, that's part of the process.
I haven't moved on, I still don't like, you know, I still want to get back together, pardon
me, wants to get back together, and it's tossing up the idea of whether that's something we
should do. So I'm still stuck in this limbo and that's okay. It's okay to be in that limbo
space, it's going to happen, it's going to take a while to get through. I think part
of it is, part of me, what's holding me back is uncertainty about whether, what I actually
want and also because I want both things, developments of both that I want, not together
and together. Fear of hurting Holly and telling her the, I have a massive, like the thought
of telling Holly no, I don't want to get back together and breaking her heart is so hard.
But, yeah. And I had a few moments this morning where I was sitting on the couch, had done,
I'd gotten a couple of things done, I had some things to look forward to for today and
the week. Lovely sunlight and I know that Holly isn't going to be messaging me and I
don't need to message her and I can just let that go for a while and let that be and just
do the things I'm doing and it was like, anyway I've got enough money, it was just, I'm kind
of sitting there for a moment. You know, the world was beautiful and sunny for a moment
I was just like, things were okay. Then of course everything came rushing back and things
immediately didn't feel okay but they are okay. I don't have to hold onto that feeling
but that feeling, I can know that that feeling is there, that I am doing the right thing,
that I'm in the right place doing the right thing. It will just take time. I don't need
to rush. I can just do what I'm doing and keep doing it and that's okay. And I'm really thankful
to Holly actually for calling me. I was terrified when she did and I was terrified for most
of the call but I'm very grateful to her for calling me. It was really good to hear her
voice and it just, I want to say more than anything it was talking to her again about
the stuff in a way that felt a little bit like we were together, not we weren't like
we were together but it wasn't this awkward, stilted, weird, unable to talk about things
way that we've been talking about things. We were open and vulnerable and Holly's made
herself vulnerable to me, opened herself to me which she's very good at doing sometimes.
But that does remind me, the other thing I need to work out about is that feeling I get
of like clamping down and not wanting to talk. Holly emailing me and me being like "Oh I
just don't want to respond" kind of thing. And the same kind of feeling I got even in
our relationship. That's not the thing I need to process. But yeah, so anyway, that's, yeah.
I do have this a bit of an overbearing feeling of like needing, feeling like I need to do
this like when I'm doing things that aren't this I feel like I should be spending my time
processing my mental health stuff, working my mental health stuff which gets a bit, it's
a bit demanding. And I don't know quite now what to do about that, something else I want
to talk to the therapist about but I just have to keep doing it sometimes. I don't have
to do it all the time. I'm allowed to go do my 3D printing stuff. I'm allowed to have
fun and have hobbies. All of that is okay. This is all okay. You are okay Michael.
And thank you Holly and I miss you and it was so good to hear your voice and I love you.
