It's 6.56am on Tuesday, the 11th of July.
This is my SIVA for the day, kind of. A bit of more distorts than anything.
Yeah, I want to get down. I want to talk through some things.
I've been thinking about Holly and the meeting I had with Holly the other day.
And, um...
I am... I am not able to put what I'm trying to say here.
It was very confusing. It was a lovely night and it was really nice to see her and reconnect a bit and kind of like take a step past some of the painful things that happened just before we felt like the end of what we were talking about.
We both kind of said, "Look, neither of us wants that to be the way we end things."
She said some really lovely, wonderful things and she gave me an absolutely beautiful birthday present which makes me want to cry every time I look at it.
It makes me feel very seen.
But it was also confusing and I had some kind of strong but strange emotional reactions, particularly towards the end of the night.
I was feeling very... towards the end of the night, I was feeling very kind of like I wanted to escape kind of thing.
And I felt very kind of checked out and emotionally overwhelmed.
She said something like that she thinks that she had been in some ways a bit emotionally immature as well.
She was talking about her parents and kind of segwayed from there into saying I was a bit emotionally immature in our relationship as well and for a bunch of last year, I being her, I was...
She basically said I wasn't able to emotionally process things.
I can't remember exactly what she said, it was something like I wasn't able to emotionally process things and I was being emotionally immature.
And you were kind of carrying the emotional load quite a lot.
And I just burst into tears when she said that because that's kind of all I needed.
Not all I needed, but I needed it to see what I was doing.
And I want to get to the point where I can really sit with and see what she was doing.
But I think I need to process my feelings first before I can do that.
Because I know she definitely was. I definitely wasn't seeing some of the ways that she was struggling and the emotional load that she was carrying.
She said that she was really overwhelmed by a whole lot of things because there was so much shit that was happening.
And she was getting frustrated and impatient because it seemed like the things I was struggling with were overwhelmed by were so much smaller.
It feels a bit shitty, but that's how she felt.
Yeah. But I felt very validated and heard and seen.
It's not a bad thing, but it definitely seems like from what she's saying that she was basically saying, "Look, I don't want to stop knowing you. I don't want to forget about you."
It made a really big impact on my life and I don't want to forget about you. She said stuff like other people might put up boundaries because they know it's going to hurt them.
But I'm a creative, I'm more flexible than that.
I'm like, "Is that you being a flexible creative or is that you being a trauma victim and holding onto things that you maybe shouldn't?"
She said that she is still open to...
She's still holding on to us. I am in a bunch too, but it definitely seems like she really isn't all that ambiguous about her feelings. She wants to get back together.
She can see that we needed space apart, but I think she wants to get back together. I think she wants me to move down to Melbourne and be with her.
Again, there is a part of me that wants that, but I think it's a smaller part of me at this point.
The larger part of me is uncertain about so many things.
She's not ambiguous. She wants to get back together, I think. I don't know if I do. I can't really say all that much about what I actually feel. I can't process it on my own. I need my therapist's help to process all of this.
I really don't want my confusion and my need to process things to string Holly along.
I want to have a conversation with her and say, "I really need you to think about whether... I need you to try and do as much reflecting as you can and really think about whether..."
We both said we want to be in each other's lives to some extent. We want to be friends.
I really need her to think about whether that is the case regardless or whether she feels like that because she's holding on to us and the hope that we will get back together.
Think about whether if I said, "No, I don't want to get back together and I probably never will," would you still want to be friends?
I'm not saying that that's what I'm going to say, but I don't know what I'm going to say. I'm so fucking confused. I need to do so much processing and I can't do it on my own.
I don't want that to string you along and I need you to work out, "Do you actually want to be friends?" Even if I said, "No, I actually don't want a relationship with you and probably never will," would you still want to be friends with me?
Or are you wanting to be friends because you're holding on to the hope that we will get back together?
Because I don't want to hurt you and I don't want to string you along, but I do, as far as I can tell, I still love you. You're important to me and I do want to know you.
I do want to have you in my life in some regard. I just don't quite know what that looks like and it might take me a while to get to the point where I can really be comfortable.
I might need a fucking lot of space. This kind of infrequent, cautious contact that we're doing at the moment might need to be what it is for a while.
We're not together and I'm not sure I want to rush into getting back together.
There's other things I need to work through like I have discovered, I think because of my experiences of feeling unloved and unwanted and feeling like I missed out on portions of adult life.
In having relationships and having sex and all those sorts of things. I think there's a part of me that really wants those things.
I want to go fuck a whole bunch of people and have a bunch of relationships and have some of those experiences.
I'm worried that those things, I don't think those feelings are going to go away when we're in a relationship.
That's maybe a part of myself I need to explore in this period after we've broken up.
If we do get back together and I have a dream, even if I have, there's a chance that I might still want to do those things or at least have sex with other people that I don't know.
I can't crush those parts of myself or guilt myself into. I need to listen to those feelings and emotions and what they're actually telling me.
I think what they're telling me is there's kind of a hole inside me that wants to be filled with love and sex from as many people as I can get.
I don't want to have a whole bunch of categorical sex. I want to get to know a bunch of people. I don't like this binary between sex and love.
Surely it's a continuum. Surely that you can have sex with someone. This attitude we have towards sex, it's like it's just sex. It's like it's this bad thing.
I'm allowed to want to have sex and I'm allowed to, but I'm also allowed to not want to just fuck random people.
I want to have the experience of getting to know, growing through meeting people and getting to know some people and having some casual relationships maybe.
That's all the stuff I need to work through. That's not going to go away. My need for space is not going to just go away.
There's all of these things I need to understand and make space for and work out if there's something I can or should put to the side or whether there's things that I need to accept about myself.
There's so much to do. So much growing to do. So much learning about myself. Getting into a relationship is probably going to make all of that more difficult.
Getting into a serious long term relationship is probably going to make all that more difficult.
I don't. I don't. Honestly the more I think about it the more I think I probably don't want to get into a serious long term relationship with Holly.
Because I don't think I can do those things. I don't know if I can explore those sides of myself.
I feel like there's all this self learning I need to do and work I need to do that I don't think I can do in a relationship with.
Particularly not a relationship. Not a long term relationship but particularly a long term serious relationship but particularly not this.
Particularly not the relationship we had where we were together. The patterns we had and the ways we were together.
There has to be a way to be able to navigate this grey zone of wanting to have relationships and get to know people and meet people.
I don't just want to have casual sex with people. Maybe a little bit but mostly no. I don't want to just have casual sex with people.
I want to get to know people and learn about them and learn about myself through them.
But I also, shorter term casual or even just casual relationships.
But I also don't want to hurt anybody or hurt myself in the process of doing that.
I mean the latter is probably fucking unavoidable. I'm probably going to hurt myself.
But I don't want to hurt anyone else as part of that process. Including Holly.
So there is growth I need to do and I don't know how to do it.
It's an unavoidable fact that Holly is basically the only relationship I've ever really had.
And I don't want that to be the case basically.
I feel like there is growing I need to do. No one can be everything for somebody.
And I feel like I have missed out on a lot of experiences and opportunities for growth.
So I don't, right now no, I don't think I do want to have a long term relationship.
That doesn't mean, like I would yes maybe consider, and I'm not absolutely certain about that either.
Because I still love her fucking so much and I miss her a lot.
I would maybe have a more casual relationship but I don't know what that looks like.
And that kind of sounds emotionally complicated and like we're just, that kind of just sounds like we're trying again.
But like not being honest about it kind of thing.
It's all really fucking confusing and I don't want to hurt Holly or string her all along.
So.
Yeah.
Fuck I don't know man. I don't know.
And you know we were talking about how she was talking about, I think I probably need to talk to her about all of this.
And it's probably going to hurt.
And probably upset her but I need that this is the truth, this is where I'm at and she needs to know that.
So she can make her own decisions for herself.
And.
I was going to say something that I can't quite remember what it was.
I need to talk to her about this, all this stuff.
This is the kind of communication we need to have I think.
There was something more there but I forgot what it was.
Anyway.
Yeah.
This really helps me talking through it like this really kind of helps me clear up my thoughts.
I think thinking about it after talking about it I probably don't want, right now I don't want a long term relationship.
I don't want a serious relationship.
I don't think with anyone.
I want to explore.
This is a, this emotional and intimate side of myself that I've never really known.
There's so much self discovery I need to do and I don't know if I can do that in a committed serious long term relationship.
Because that necessarily kind of closes off some options sort of thing like particularly with the end particularly with it's a relationship where we've already had a relationship like some things we're going to fall back into some of the same patterns.
We're probably going to fall back into all of the same patterns.
And that wasn't working for us.
That it's really not easy to change those sorts of things.
And I don't, I've definitely not grown anywhere near enough.
There's all these, our relationship and my experiences in the past few years have uncovered all of these things so many things about myself that I need to kind of learn about and grow through.
And going back into our long term committed relationship is kind of just going to I think put us back into the same state.
Maybe it will be different but I doubt it to be honest.
I haven't really grown.
I've like, I can see all of these things in ways in which I might, I need to start growing but I haven't grown that much.
So, yeah and we are both approaching it from a very different point.
She has had, you have had multiple like quite a lot of relationships and sexual encounters and done a lot of growing in those ways.
And you know, for Mew, our relationship was kind of like a, it was a different experience but it was also like, yeah I don't know.
Yeah, anyway, yeah she was talking about how she was, we were talking, we were kind of getting onto the topic of like whether we'd seen anybody else.
She asked if I'd gotten onto Tinder or seen anybody and I said no, I installed Tinder and got off it in about two seconds.
And she was pretty much the same, she did get on it but just like wasn't interested in anybody and wasn't ready.
Um.
And we talked about, we started talking about that and I kind of said, look I don't know how much we should be talking about this, how much are you comfortable.
Basically I was like, wanted to talk a little bit about the fact that I did have a bit of a, I've developed a bit of a crush on Miranda and um.
And you know, talking about sex, started talking about sex with other people and she basically said what do you want out of our relationship?
Do you want it to be us to, do you want us to try again at some point or do you want to be friends?
And um, I was like I don't know and she was basically like, would you talk to a friend about this?
Um, and I was like, yeah maybe. And she was like, if we talk about this we have to kind of take our relationship into just, into friendship.
It's basically like I think if we talk about those things then that kind of precludes us being intimate. Um.
Which, yeah I don't know. So the fact that I maybe want to explore with other people is maybe just automatically precludes us from being intimate, I don't know.
So I thought, so she does need to know about that I think.
You know, we broke up for a reason and she keeps harping on, going on this thing that it was all, that it was situational and the situation definitely did not help it absolutely contributed.
But it wasn't just situational.
I think she thinks it's situational and wants to try again in a different way to see if we can make it work. And yes maybe we can.
But I'm kind of doubtful.
Because the thing is, yes you were going through so much but that's probably not going to change that much because that's kind of what your life is like.
You are in a position where those things are going to happen. You are in a position in your life where you're kind of stuck and trying to desperately work out what to do and you're, you know.
Like those things don't just, they're not just bad luck. Those things are happening to you because of the position, because of the choices you make, because of the position you're in, because of the ways you interpret things.
And because of your condition, like they're probably going to keep happening to you. It's not just bad luck.
Which means we're going to have to keep, if we were in a relationship we're going to have to keep, life is going to be hard like that.
Maybe we had a particularly bad run of luck but, you know, and I am going to continue being overwhelmed and struggle.
The things I was struggling with, they're not just going to, there wasn't just bad luck.
I'm going to continue struggling with those things. So I can't really see how it's going to change all that much.
And she needs to know all of this so that she can, so that I'm not stringing her along.
