I just had another last call with Holly. She texted me earlier today and said that she
was expecting a call from Centrelink. She thought it was going to be about her debt,
which had me pretty worried. And then she just gave me a call and let me know that they've
actually waived the debt.
We had a little bit of a conversation and then we kind of hung up and I talked to her
in November and I texted her and said, "Hey, sorry, I feel like I was a little bit awkward
on the call. It's just a part to navigate where we're at, but I really am very happy
for you and super relieved for you."
Then she sent me a few photos of Ceres in Melbourne and then that was the end of the
call. That was it. I'm not feeling overwhelming about emotions or anything, but it's a confusing
mix of emotions. I'm happy for me. I'm relieved and happy for me because it means that $3,000
I had to set aside is now just my money. I've got an extra $3,000. It means I don't have
to use it.
I was thinking about, because she was talking about me not being able to send it to her
and just maybe leaving it there. I was like, "Well, I'm not just going to leave it there,
but maybe I'll build up my emergency fund a bit bigger so I've got the space for the
money." I've got the space for it. I don't have to worry about it. I've just got the
money there. Now I don't have to do that. I've just got that money and I can do whatever
the fuck I want with it. It means I actually did end up saving a pretty decent amount of
money. I refilled my emergency savings from like a grain and a half back up to $5,000.
I put a $3,000 aside for the debt. I put $3,000 aside for my living costs and then I got another
$1,500. $1,600 for my last pay. I ended up saving like, what's that? About $12,000 in
that time in between. I was moving back in February, April, in March. I was moving back
here in March and quitting my job in July. Between those months I saved $12,000. That's
actually really fucking good. Well, maybe $10,000. So yeah, I don't know what to do
with that money. It really makes me want to go get a job ASAP so I can hold onto it and
not burn through it all. I should probably invest that money. Anyway, that's not really
a good idea. It's just a confusing set of emotions. I'm relieved and happy for me. I'm
relieved and happy for her. When she told me I was like really relieved and now it's
kind of faded and I'm just like not really feeling much about it. But that's a big weight
off my back for her. Now I feel like she can maybe move forward. She's got her money back.
She's where she needs to be. We've sorted things out enough that we can give each other
some space. And she's got the debt off her back. She's kind of in the best position she
could be in right now. I'm thankful for that and I'm hopeful that she can really start
to work on some of the things she needs to work on and get where she wants to be. Really
get that opportunity to live her own life, to be her own person. Hopefully over the next
couple of months as we don't contact each other and give each other space. She at least knows
that we're not immediately going to be getting back together if ever. And she can let things
go a little bit between us. So she's not just constantly thinking about us all the time
and can actually move on with her own life a little bit. But I'm also feeling sad and
confused and grieving and feeling a bit lost. I really wanted to hear that and it was like
this awkward distance between us but at the same time I just wanted to reach out and shower
or all my shower with my love and my gratitude. It was almost like we were just back together
again on the phone. It didn't feel too bad. It's just a confusing set of emotions. I think
I'm most, the biggest thing is I'm grieving that we couldn't make it work. I'm grieving
that I felt like we had to break up. There was so much that was good and not really much
would have to change for, well they're pretty big things but it's not a huge amount of things.
We'll have to change for us to be able to work and I'm grieving that we couldn't make
that work and confused about what I want out of this and whether I want to try again. I'm
just confused so much. I get more confused every time something like this happens and
we talk. She showed me pictures of Ceres and now I'm like well maybe I should move down
there. Now I'm starting to think more and more about moving down there, especially after
finding out that I can't go to Scotland immediately. I mean I can but I have to live in Scotland
for three years before I can do that masters. It's making me think maybe I should just go
back to uni and maybe I should move down to Melbourne and finish my honours down there
because I'd rather do an individual thesis than a team thesis. Maybe I just save up this
year and then move down there next year. I don't know. Probably just doing that because
I'm holding onto her and that's okay because I am still holding onto her because I haven't
let go completely because I don't know what I want. That's also okay. We've given ourselves
the space to work that out.
[silence]
