I'm reading page 240 of Daring Greatly and it's really hitting home.
She's talking about groupfulness as being as part of one of the core components of what
she calls wholeheartedness, which is kind of like living an open, connected life.
She talks about how hope actually arises from experiences of adversity, actually arises
from experiences of adversity to nasty and grit.
Defines it as hope as a combination of setting goals, having the tenacity and perseverance
to pursue them and believing in our own abilities.
She talks about how she needed to step back and let her children learn how to figure out
some things on their own, that's super important.
To learn hopefulness, children need relationships that are characterized by boundaries, consistency
and support.
I don't know about those.
Children with high levels of hopefulness have experienced with adversity, they've been
given the opportunity to struggle and in doing that they learn how to believe in themselves.
My experience of adversity has led me to believe that I'll fail.
Coming back from Korea, I closed in on myself and became more scared and became worried
about ever moving out of the country again.
Last year confirmed for me basically that I maybe am not ready for relationships, that
I struggle with work and life.
I have a mind that seems to have an automatic way of framing things that sees myself as
failing and I think that has something to do with my upbringing in some ways.
I have never been able to figure out how to do things on my own and I really struggle
to even try.
There's so much more to all of this but I think this page is really really important.
I've marked it down with a green note and I'm going to come back and think about it
some more.
She says if we're always following our children into the arena, hushing the critics and assuring
their victory, they'll never learn that they have the ability to do greatly on their own.
It's not entirely what Mum did but she was very much a helicopter parent.
I think in some ways it's like maybe she didn't even...
It's not that she followed me into the arena, she didn't even let me go into the arena,
I guess, or internalised things from them that meant I never wanted, like I never felt
able to go into the arena because it was like I can't, I'm not supposed to do that, breaking
the rules, I'm not allowed to do that.
