I'm reading back from my journal, back through my journal from earlier this year before we
broke up and then into after we broke up.
And there was so much I was feeling that I was ashamed of that I struggled to process
because of that shame.
I was running away from that shame.
And also one of the other things that I was struggling with was that feeling like I couldn't
rely on her.
You know, I was actually really hurt by her not cleaning the car.
I was really disappointed by that because it felt like it was kind of like really strong
confirmation that I couldn't, I didn't feel like I could rely on her.
That she didn't do the things she said she was going to do.
I had to pay for rent because, one week because she ran out of money because she was frivolous
with her funds and then she said "I'm going to fix this, I'm going to get a job" and then
she didn't.
But also I value understanding and I have to understand that those are things she struggles
with a lot in the same way that I struggled with being overwhelmed by work and life and
stuff and I felt hurt when she didn't understand that.
I need to understand that side of things for her.
Part of why it was so hard to talk to her about any of this was the combination of being
absolutely terrified of hurting her.
The emotional, the overwhelm of the emotions involved because they felt so distressing.
Any kind of like threat, any kind of emotional distress between us felt so overwhelming and
also my shame.
Because I felt shame about how I was feeling about her which made it hard to talk about
because sometimes I didn't have to talk about my shame and then she'd have to talk me through
my shame when I'm talking about stuff that's hurting her.
I need her to know that these are things I'm going to struggle with.
She knows that I'm not, that I struggle with the stuff, that I'm slow to process these
things, that I get overwhelmed by the stuff, that I don't understand my emotions as that
much.
And she has to be okay with that if we're going to do another try again and the same
way back the other way.
I have to know that she struggles with the things she struggles with like getting work.
And I have to be okay with that if we're going to try and make a relationship work.
And I felt so incapable of dealing with her problems.
I felt so overwhelmed by us.
Yeah, I don't know.
We can try again because there is maybe more things we can try but it doesn't mean it will
necessarily work.
Because there is reasons that we broke up.
I do get overwhelmed and I'm probably going to get overwhelmed by our relationship.
And if I can't find a way to either be less distressed with that or by that or be able
to process the distress or something, I don't know.
It's going to be like last year again and I don't, I can't do that.
I need her to know if we try again that we're going to have to do things differently.
We're probably going to have to take it slow and it still might not work.
I might get overwhelmed again and not be able to deal with it all.
That happens again.
That's probably a sign that our relationship, as wonderful as it is, is probably just too
much for me at this point in my life.
I think that's where the desire to be with somebody else before I get back together with
her, like a casual relationship with somebody else before I get back together with Holly
comes from.
It's like a desire to see if, because this is my first relationship, a lot of what I'm
feeling I would probably feel in pretty much any relationship.
Because a lot of it's got to do with me.
But it's like, I can't really say that until I've seen another relationship.
I kind of want to confirm it for myself and not feel so behind in experience in our relationship.
She's not always very good at talking through things in the moment, but she is very good
at talking through things and taking responsibility and accountability for things later.
After she's had time to sit back and process and have some space.
That was the thing in our relationship, when we were living together, there was so little
space.
It was reacting against a lot of ways.
I needed both of us to have more space.
Because I knew she needed it too and she was not taking it for herself.
I don't want a relationship where we're constantly talking and interacting and in each other's
pockets and we both need the space to live out, to be ourselves and to be able to process
stuff.
I need the space to be able to feel my fucking feelings.
Because I find those feelings so overwhelming, among other things.
Part of why I ran away.
Part of why I ended our relationship, my side of ending things, because I just couldn't
do it anymore.
I couldn't deal with that level of intensity and the emotions and the overwhelm.
Man, I fucking hit it on the head with this journal.
Going back to my journal, Tuesday 28th of March 2023, this is what I said.
I don't think I feel safe expressing my emotions.
I think I don't even feel safe having emotions.
And when I am having them, I want to be alone and I don't want to be talked to.
That's exactly what's stopping me from processing my emotions here.
I don't feel safe having them.
I don't want to be alone and not talk to.
And there's nowhere to be alone and not talk to here.
And that's also why I pull away when I was with Holly.
Particularly when we were living together.
God, I was so overwhelmed when we broke up.
We broke up on the first.
And on the second I made a journal that said, "The morning after, lots of things and feelings,
thoughts and feelings, but this was the right decision.
The world feels fresh and past a looming wall of emotional pain, the world feels pregnant
with possibility."
Things felt, it was like a relief, a massive weight had been lifted when we ended our relationship.
I'm terrified of feeling like that again.
But that's the fear, man.
That's the fear I'm trying to face, trying to learn to live with.
Am I going to succumb to fear?
Which I do throughout my whole life.
I live a very fearful life.
Fear dictates a lot of what I do.
Ah man, this is applicable too.
This is journal entry from the 7th of April.
I'm talking about Mark Manson's Four Stages of Life article.
And this thing, I wrote, "One more thing to quote because it's fairly applicable I think.
The same thing gets us stuck at every stage, a sense of personal inadequacy."
That's what I've been talking about all morning.
That vulnerability book, shame arises from not enough, feeling like not enough, which
is a sense of personal inadequacy.
We get stuck at a stage, which I think is kind of what's happening with me at the moment.
I'm kind of transitioning and also kind of getting stuck.
And it's because I sense I feel inadequate.
I feel ashamed, I feel like I'm not enough.
And I struggle to be vulnerable because of that.
I struggle to live a connected life, to connect with people.
It's all fucking... and a connected life is a meaningful life because meaning arises in
connections and relationships.
Maybe it's this feeling of shame and inadequacy and inability to be vulnerable that is leading
to my feelings of a meaningless life, of life being meaningless.
So this is probably the thing I need to work on, this shame and not enoughness.
How the fuck do you do that?
I guess I suppose I have to look at that book again.
"The solution for being stuck at each stage is backwards, accepting that you can never
perfectly achieve the goals of that stage.
You can never be enough for everyone all the time.
You will never do everything you dream and desire and you have to choose."
That's what I am struggling with.
Life is not enough.
I need more life, fucker.
Yeah, that Mark Manson article on the four stages of life, I went back and read it.
This is what he says about stage two.
Stage two being trying to get...
Hold on, stage two.
Stage two is self-discovery.
Stage two is about learning what makes us different from the people and culture around
us.
Stage two requires us to begin making decisions for ourselves, to test ourselves and to understand
ourselves and what makes us unique.
Stage two involves a lot of trial and error in our experimentation.
We experiment with living in new places, hanging out with new people, imbibing new substances
and playing with new friends.
Playing with new people's orifices.
Stage two is a process of self-discovery.
We try some things.
Some of them go well, some of them don't.
The goals are to stick with the ones that go well for a while and move on.
Stage two lasts until we begin to run up against our own limitations.
What gets us stuck at stage two, which really resonates with me.
Stage two people get stuck because they feel as though they should always be doing more,
doing something better, doing something new and exciting, improving at something.
But no matter how much they do, they feel as though it is never enough.
The solution at each stage is then backwards.
To move beyond stage two you must accept that you will never be capable of accomplishing
everything you can dream of and desire.
Therefore you must zero in on what matters most and commit to it.
That's exactly what is happening for me at the moment and has been happening for a while.
This bouncing between all these different things, psychology, philosophy, travelling
the world, moving to Scotland, living in Australia, all of these different things, this fucking
tumult.
That's exactly what's happening for me right now.
And that's what happened in my relationship with Holly.
Feeling like I need to do more, things aren't enough.
Nothing is ever enough.
In my relationship with Holly, feeling like I need to experience more intimacy, more with
other people.
I need to experience more people basically.
I need to have some of those experiences I never got when I was younger.
With people, have sex with people, travel the world and have casual relationships.
All of that.
I didn't do those things.
And now at this age I feel like I still feel like I need to, I want to.
That's what happened in my relationship with Holly.
And I need to either accept that and try some more.
And move on from my relationship with Holly.
And try to meet other people.
Or I need to accept that it's not going to be enough.
That no matter what I do, it will never, I'm never going to get that, I may never feel
like, no matter how many people I have relationships with, no matter how many people I fuck, it's
never going to be enough.
I think that's probably pretty likely.
So I need to, I don't know, I don't know if that means I should be with Holly or not,
basically.
Because that's something I'm going to have to deal with regardless.
I mean considering I'm feeling like there is more we can try, that's probably the way
to go is to try again and try some of these things, more of these things.
But I'm still going to have to deal with that, I'm still going to have to deal with that
feeling of not being enough.
It's not that Holly's not enough at all, it's just, you know, no one person can be everything
for someone.
Humans are limited.
We bring, other people bring different parts of us out and no matter what you do, like
any relationship you get into there's going to be a lot, it's the same, but there's going
to be other parts that are different and other things you will experience and ways you will
grow that are different.
And that's, it's like, and they will be limited in their own ways.
It's not a problem with Holly.
It's like a desire and a need in me to explore more, I still want to explore more.
I'm still in that exploring stage of my life.
I'm still in the exploring stage of my life, I haven't settled into something.
And that's, the hard thing is it's not lining up with the socially expected timeline, you
know, on 32.
I'm still in an exploration stage, I still don't know what I want to do with my career,
I still don't know what I want to do with my life, I don't know where I want to live,
I don't know who I want to be with.
All of these things, my hobbies are changing, my life's still very much in flux and I haven't
settled into anything.
I'm still very much in an exploring stage.
I thought I maybe wasn't anymore, but I think I still am and I don't really know.
As he said, the way to move through it and beyond it is to accept that.
I don't really know how to, maybe I need to explore a bit more?
Maybe there is some more exploring I need to do, I don't know.
But what does that mean?
Does that mean living other places?
Does that mean trying some more different degrees, some more kinds of job?
Does it mean having sex with a bunch of people?
Does it mean trying to have more relationships, new friendships?
What does it mean?
I don't know.
And I think that's part of what was holding me back from wanting to, from saying yes to
being with Holly again.
It's because it's like now I have that opportunity to be with other people, to explore.
And I do still want to explore, there is a part of me that wants to explore, I'm not
done exploring.
I don't know, I don't know what to do.
And for now I'm kind of just, I'm kind of stuck in that.
I'm kind of stuck in this place where I don't want to move on from Holly but I also do.
Mostly because I'm not done exploring.
I don't know.
A lot of it comes back to the fact that I haven't, this is my first relationship, I
haven't done any exploring.
You know, everybody else, all these other people around me who are settling down and
having children and getting married, they've had other relationships, they've fucked a
bunch of people.
I've not done that, I've not had that experience.
I've not seen anything, I've had sex with two people before Holly, a grand total of
about four or five times.
It's like I've barely explored so, I've explored so little of this part of myself and it's
probably, even if we do decide to settle down, it's going to be a part of me.
I don't know what that means.
I don't know if the way I accept that is to try a few other things and then accept that
I can never try enough and what I have is good enough.
I don't know.
But right now I'm in this really uncomfortable, stuck position where I haven't made up my
mind, I don't really want to leave Holly either.
Because I still love her and there's still so much that's good about her and I don't
want to hurt her and I don't know.
I am kind of becoming convinced by what she said that maybe there's more we can try.
I really don't fucking know.
I haven't made up my mind either way.
I'm leaning now back towards getting back together with her again and I want to just
jump in straight in and move down and see her and talk to her but I really need to resist
that urge because I'm going to hurt her so much if I do that and then decide I actually
know I don't want to do that.
I don't need to be sure, I'm never going to be sure before I do it.
I'm trying to fill that pain by getting on adult front finder and getting on this, that,
the other but I'm not committed to doing those things because I still want Holly.
Yeah.
Oh that's really hard.
You know, I probably if we do end up deciding not to go forwards, I probably need to just
actually, we probably just need to let each other go.
I need to take everything, every reminder of her I have and put it in a box under my
bed.
Everything that reminds me of her, which means I probably need to move somewhere else to
somewhere that isn't Brisbane, it isn't Sydney, it isn't Melbourne and put everything of hers
in a box and move on and not try and be friends and not try and maintain contact.
That's going to hurt both of us so fucking much but that's probably what's necessary
but I'm scared that maybe I shouldn't do that until we do try again because she's
thinks that we can maybe do it and I kind of maybe do too.
Maybe we should try some more.
I don't know.
Maybe we should try again before making that decision.
How much more is that going to hurt though?
Fuck I don't know man.
I really don't know.
Now I'm uncertain again.
This is finally actually confronting some of this stuff.
I've just been, I've not been confronting it, I've just been sitting in it, boiling
away and underneath everything driving my decisions, you know, making me go out and
spend $600 on hobbies, signed up to adult friend finder on a whim, been obsessing about
whether I should go see a prostitute etc etc etc.
Because I'm not processing any of these things, I'm not doing this and I've spent all day
and it's just coming, like I've got the chance now and it's all fucking vomiting out.
Which is good because today's the day I'm going to go see the therapist but I do this
so little and it's holding me back and I really need to work out how to do it more.
To really process what I'm feeling.
I don't know what it is about today that unlocks it.
I think it's the fact I'm about to see the therapist and the space and time for me.
I should probably try and do this every two weeks basically.
Like try and see the therapist every two weeks while mum and dad are gone.
On the Friday while they're, while they're gone.
Give myself space that day to do this.
Maybe that's okay.
I haven't actually seen the therapist for almost a month.
So if I do this every two weeks and I have, every two weeks I have, you know, three or
four days where I see a therapist and I do some of this processing.
Maybe that's okay and I don't need to pour myself into it the rest of the time.
And then I just get a three day job, three day a week job to be able to afford to do
that and still have the time.
Because this is really probably the most important thing.
This is the most important thing I can do.
Nothing is as important as this.
That's what I'm doing right now.
And I, we, I have the space with Holly.
We're not going to, as much as I desperately am wanting to just rush down and be with her
again, I need to not do that.
I need to resist that urge and I really, we've given ourselves some space.
It doesn't, I don't have to give it until November but we've given ourselves some space.
She's not expecting anything from me until November.
I'm not expecting, we don't need to have any contact.
I have this three months to do this and this is the most important thing I can do.
I need to take that time.
I'm safe, I'm supported.
Once I get a three day a week job I'll have the time and the resources and the best position
I can be to do this.
I've got a good therapist.
Life feels bad but that doesn't mean life is bad.
I'm where I need to be right now.
I keep coming up again, I keep thinking that, I keep realising that and then going for a
couple of weeks and being like "oh life's shit".
But I'm where I need to be and doing what I need to do and this is what I need to do.
This is what I need to be doing.
Don't run back to Holly straight away.
You're really, I know you want to, I know you're feeling emotional but it needs to be
considered.
Don't just succumb to your emotions.
Respect your emotions.
Feel your emotions, honour them.
That's okay.
It's okay to feel like this and that's good but you can't just die straight into them
and you'll be impetuous and you'll hurt yourself and you'll hurt Holly.
Give yourself time to do this processing Michael.
You're doing the right thing already.
You're where you need to be.
I know that doesn't feel good and it doesn't feel right.
You want things to be better and different and going faster but where you are doing what
you need to do and you're where you need to be.
And well done for doing this.
I'm actually proud of you Michael.
Well done for doing this.
This is really good.
I know you feel like you need to do it more and you're haranguing yourself for that.
You know, this urge, this feeling that rises up, it's like it's not enough, I need to do
this more.
You need to be able to do this more.
This is important.
I said I need to be doing this all the time.
No you don't.
This is okay.
Even if you're doing it once or twice, I want you one or two days every two weeks.
That's probably, that's enough.
This is okay.
What you are doing.
Don't expect yourself to be able to do this all the time.
Accept Michael, accept who you are.
It's alright.
It's alright.
You are alright.
That makes it so much easier to feel acceptance for myself when I'm talking to a future myself.
That's really powerful.
It lets me jump out of that mode of being, it lets me actually feel like I'm talking
to somebody else but it's me at the same time.
That's really powerful.
I want to say I love you Michael.
That's what we had feeling.
You're okay.
I'm so glad I bought this fucking thing.
This makes so much difference.
This is the way I've tried to hammer myself into writing and it is good in some ways but
it's just not enough.
It hurts my hand.
I can't keep up.
My hand can't keep up with my brain.
This is the way I need to do it.
This is the way I need to process.
This is just what I've gravitated towards my entire life.
It makes things so much easier and better.
And what you've done today, what you've done this morning, that's enough.
That's okay.
You can leave it there.
I know you feel like you need to rush off and do other stuff.
Just take a moment.
Be proud of yourself for how much you've done, for what you have done and the realizations
you've come to in facing some of this stuff.
And then go do some of those things and that's okay.
You can do that.
And this is enough.
What you have done now is enough.
Thank you.
