I think I'm realising that I've been talking about wanting to have casual relationships.
That really just means the kind of relationships I had before I met Holly.
Short term, have a bit of sex, get to know someone a little bit, it ends, pain, a little
bit of pain.
What I think I actually, what that need actually is, is the need to have been in other relationships
before being Holly.
The need to know what it feels like to be with other people long term.
The desire to know what I'm missing out on, how good I've got it with Holly.
To be more prepared on one hand, and the desire to fuck a bunch of people basically.
To have sex with more people, more women.
To have to fulfil this fantasy I have of having these experiences that I feel like I missed
out on in my twenties and teens.
That I'm ashamed of, that I feel ashamed of having missed out on.
I don't think I actually want...
Yeah, and I think, well, I don't really like casual sex, the idea of casual sex not much
either so, but am I thinking, I'm actually thinking I don't want casual relationships,
so what do I want, friends with benefits, but then it's kind of...
I know I would find it hard to have sex with someone and not develop some kind of feelings
for them, especially if I'm, if we're friends.
Yeah, it's a bit more complicated than I thought.
I think it lends a little bit more credence to the idea of either getting back together
with Holly or just saying goodbye.
This idea of like kind of holding out, kind of keeping in contact but not really, but
kind of, and then having multiple short term relationships and then having sex with a bunch
of people and then going, but like having multiple short term casual relationships
and then going back to her is probably not actually what I need or want.
It's probably a fantasy and it's based on some needs and desires that I'm, and shortcomings
and failings and what I feel like are hidden shortcomings and failings and weak points
and shame points that I'm not paying attention to.
I think basically what you're thinking about wanting here is a fuck buddy that you don't
have to have a relationship with.
Someone you can, an ongoing person you can have, someone you can have an ongoing, some
kind of relationship with but not an actual intimate relationship but you can still have
sex with, which is unrealistic, almost certainly not going to happen.
You would probably have feelings, they would have feelings, probably I don't, they probably
would, I'm going to end up hurting somebody or getting hurt and it's the exact fucking
thing that men stereotypically do.
It's like a thing I feel like I need to do because of something I feel like I missed
out on or ways I wasn't good enough or something when I was younger.
I probably need to go talk to my therapist about that.
That's a big part of what's been holding me back with Dolly to be honest.
That desire to have that experience while we aren't together.
But when I really actually delve into that idea, when I think about when I was travelling,
meeting some of the people I met, if I had had sex with them, how I would have felt.
Think about that Canadian, French Canadian girl whose name I don't remember.
Think about that girl in Scotland at Morag Lodge who was camping.
Think about Nikki in Korea.
I think it was because of the feelings I had around those, that fear and like holding myself
back.
That maybe I feel like this, I feel like I'm trying to get past that or that helped me
back and I want to not feel like that anymore.
That was never really what I wanted.
But also maybe it was.
I don't know.
There's a lot of sexual repression going on here.
Some stuff I really need to unravel I think.
It's impacting, it impacted my relationship with Holly and it's impacting my ideas of getting
back with her or not.
I think in some of the things you've been thinking about, in some ways you've been having
casual relationships, you've kind of been unintentionally, kind of victimously, but
unintentionally cruel.
It's kind of, not really, I don't know if it's not something I should want, but it's
like you're probably going to hurt somebody doing that.
I'm probably hurting Holly by wanting that, but it's like I can't also get rid of the
feeling at the same time.
I may be hurting myself.
It's like I've been a bit thoughtless and hurtful.
Maybe towards, maybe to Holly in that regard, but just like thoughtless and hurtful to the
people I would end up being with, kind of thing.
Like that approach, if I went into it with that approach, that kind of intention, that's
kind of thoughtless and hurtful.
I'm kind of using someone.
And yet the feeling still persists.
That need.
Fuck.
It's more complicated than I thought.
Something I'm really going to have to face.
I had to talk to my therapist about this.
This need I feel like I have, and where it comes from, and the fact that it is, would
probably lead me to be thoughtless and hurtful, and use someone, and probably is hurting Holly.
It may be hurting me and holding me back.
It's also kind of stereotypically male.
If I may be internalised or bought into ideas of masculinity that require me to fuck a certain
amount of people, have a certain amount of experiences, or something, is that where that
feeling is coming from?
Despite being so kind of against that in so much of my life, if I bought into it here,
is that where that feeling in need is arising from?
Like I feel like I've failed as a man because I haven't fucked enough people or something.
[sigh]
