When we first broke up, I was excited at the prospect of being able to date and have sex
with other people. Given the experience I'd now had, it's like, right, I got my first
relationship out of the way, maybe now I can meet other people. It won't be as hard and
painful as it always was. And it still kind of is. And I think I have a really deep-seated
feeling of lack, of lacking, of like I missed out on something that I was supposed to get,
supposed to do. And I constantly, not constantly, but it's like, it's hard to explain, it's
like underlying a lot of things is this feeling of wanting, underlying feeling of I was never
able to get what I needed. I always felt lacking in intimacy and touch and all those things,
and sexual experiences and intimate and relationship experiences because of my own fears and stuff.
It's plagued me my whole life. It's kind of taken over my identity and even after being
in a relationship that's still there. It's like, now I'm not in a relationship. The thing
I was excited about was being in another relationship and not being as much of a problem. I don't
know, I think it's an ongoing thing I'm going to have to deal with is this pit of want and
desire and loneliness and feeling like I missed out, that I missed opportunities and I missed
out. Yeah, fuck, I don't know. And if we do get back together, if Holly and I do get back
together I'm worried that that will be a current that's running under my feelings. That I'll
not always want more or always, not that I thought about it all that much while I was
with Holly, but I'm worried there's a part of me that will always wonder what would have
happened if I tried being with other people. I can't just make that go away and I feel
bad about it. I feel ashamed of that part of myself.
