Holly made herself vulnerable. She opened her heart to me with her poetry and her writing.
I often talked about her ideas and sometimes I felt scorn. Why did I feel that? Like that's childish, I think.
That's what I felt. That's what I felt. Like that's childish. You know, she talked about her ideas of the Druid, the nature lady who lived under the ground.
That's a bit silly. That's a bit childish. I judged her. Why did I do that? It just kinda happened. I didn't really have any control over it.
I didn't see the gorgeous vulnerability. She's so poetic. She's so... like me in some ways.
I think that's part of why I didn't reveal myself to her so much, because of how I felt about her doing that.
I didn't want to feel like that about her, but I couldn't seem to stop it. Maybe that was just a symptom of the frustrations I was feeling for her.
But I did take that for granted. I didn't appreciate it. I love that part of her. Her willingness to be open and vulnerable.
The depth of her feeling and the depth of... she's an artist, she's a poet. She feels things really deeply and things make an impression on her.
I don't know. I remember standing in the bathroom washing my teeth and she was standing in the hallway.
We were talking about how Dad closes up all the curtains at night.
She said, "Why? What's real is out there in the dark and there's nothing bad about the dark."
I felt scorn, maybe even contempt. I'm not quite sure why.
I hated feeling like that. I don't want to feel like that about Holly or anybody I love.
I think part of why I broke up with her was because I was running away from those feelings.
Rather than trying to face them and work out why they were happening, understand myself and accept myself and accept that I was feeling those things.
I just felt shame and tried to run away.
Was it all just me getting overwhelmed and scared? I mean it was, I know, it was me getting overwhelmed and tired and unable to deal with it anymore.
What was all of that? I think that was a reaction to myself and the shame I was feeling.
I think I felt really, really deep shame and sadness because we broke up a day or two after Holly said, "We used to have these long, deep conversations and now you never want to talk to me."
I felt devastated hearing that because she was right.
I felt absolutely gutted because she was right. I wasn't really aware of it at the time but I think I felt so much shame about my need for space.
I felt like I'd let her down and disappointed her. There's so much judging of myself and so much shame.
I think I ran. That happened and I was like, "I can't do this." I'd been getting more and more frustrated with her wanting to constantly talk.
I think I had gotten into a phase where I was trying to establish my own independence in the relationship.
We got to that phase where we were kind of pulling apart and re-establishing ourselves.
Except I think I was doing that and she was trying to but struggling to and still very much wrapped up in me.
We'd had the stuff. There was the stuff with the Centrelink debt.
The resentment and feelings I was having around the...
The money situation and her not talking. I'm not working. Me refusing to pay for us to get down to Melbourne.
We'd had that blowout while we were away on our last trip. All this stuff about not working came up. I can't remember what was said but I was telling her how I was feeling and all my frustrations.
She felt like I didn't believe in her. I felt like, "What was the point?" That's why she broke up.
I think I was running from shame and fear and overwhelm.
I think that's the shame of not being able to keep up. Of struggling so much.
Of not feeling like I want to feel for Holly and all this stuff.
Shame of needing so much space. I feel so much shame about all those things that it makes all those things so much worse.
I was running from that. I never told Holly any of these things. I never communicated to her anything about the ways I was feeling.
I just pulled away. I just kept pulling away. I didn't talk to her about how I was feeling. I just pulled away.
That terrified her.
I didn't talk to her about things and what I needed because I felt so much shame about them.
I actually feel a great deal of shame and it's at the core of a lot of our issues, my issues in our relationship.
Where a lot of my overwhelm comes from. I would be overwhelmed, I think, a bit regardless.
The shame I feel about my overwhelm makes it all so much worse.
And my emotions and negative emotions. Just feeling like I need space. Pretty much any time I feel negative towards Holly I feel ashamed of myself.
Fuck. Maybe we could make it work. And maybe I was being a coward.
I mean that's labeling and using shameful language there.
Maybe we were running away. Maybe it's not that we were that incompatible. I mean there was difficulties definitely.
But how much of that actually just could be okay if I was able to communicate with her better and how I was actually feeling.
And not succumb to my shame so much. Except that I'm just feeling, I have feelings that are negative towards her sometimes.
We need to have a long hard think. We need to communicate all about all of this.
And we'd need to have a long hard think. We'd need to have a long hard think about how we could do things differently. We would need to do a lot of things differently. Communicating being a big one of them.
Communicating differently. Interacting differently. Being more open about our need for space and how we're feeling.
And what measures we put in place to get around some of those things.
I would need to talk to her about all my feelings around needing space. And when I noticed that feeling I would need to talk to her about it.
Because that was one of the central problems for me.
That money situation and maybe whatever's going on with my feelings about her approach to feminism I guess.
Her jumping to conclusions about men, I don't know what it is. And those really strong feelings that I get in reaction with that I shut down but then I also feel shame about.
Confusing mix of feelings.
God this is so much easier when Mum and Dad aren't here. And when I'm not working.
I really do think getting a 2 or 3 day a week job and just keeping myself going for a bit is at least probably 3 days so I can actually save a little bit of money.
And then finding some way to do this even when Mum and Dad are here.
Talking to my parents about not talking to me so much.
Not asking me how I'm going kind of thing.
Asking for what I might need. The thought of doing that with my parents is fucking terrifying.
Because I always just kind of grin and bear.
Every time I ever felt the courage and comfortable enough to actually ask for that.
When it was for Holly but not so much for me. But ask for that for what we needed.
When Holly was with me. She does kind of give me the courage to do that a bit more.
Maybe a lot of our problems weren't insurmountable incompatibilities.
Maybe they were a lot of it came down to my inability, my struggles with facing my emotions and the shame I feel.
And maybe all of that is a bit more doable with the amount of distance we'd have having a long distance relationship.
And of course as always Holly was immediately ready to do that and I'm crawling behind.
And I don't know what's changed. Maybe it was time to process.
I think that conversation we had was a big part of it actually.
Because we weren't having that conversation. She didn't have the space to process some of those things.
The last two times we spoke I felt heard and seen.
And I didn't before that. I just felt not listened to and so hurt.
And it was so hard to navigate and I was so tired of trying to navigate all those difficulties.
And trying to communicate while also trying not to step on each other's feelings and hurt each other.
God it hurts me so much. It takes up so much. It's so distressing.
And trying to deal with that. Trying to feel that distress while working.
Fuck.
It consumes me. It absolutely fucking consumes me.
That's what happened last year. All the shame and the overwhelming feelings.
I get really overwhelmed by my feelings. And they consumed me.
They definitely don't have... That doesn't happen as much on these pills I think.
Yeah I don't know.
This is definitely something I need to talk to my therapist, to the therapist a bit, to Cathy about this.
How overwhelming I find my feelings and how it's a bit hard I find it to face them and then also live life.
And how much that happened in our relationship. And then the depth of the shame I feel and all that.
But I am thinking more and more that maybe we should try again.
Maybe we should try in some new form in a new relationship.
Try again.
Nobody has seen me like I have. I'm not sure anybody could.
The ways that she sees me.
And the fact that she still wants me after all of this. And she still loves me.
After all the words I heard her.
And she still calls me a secret philosophical poet and gives me her birthday card.
The depth of her love.
I think that scares me too.
Living up to that.
Terrifies me.
Makes me feel ashamed.
At times I feel like I'm not or I can't.
That's something I should probably tell her.
This is a really important one I think.
This recording.
And I'm terrified of living up to what she needs and what she expects of me in regards to being a feminist and feminism and disability ally.
Because I feel this massive sense of resistance about some of those things and I don't really know why and then I feel shame about that.
And don't feel able to communicate to her about it because she gets so emotional about it and defensive.
And defensive she's just so passionate about it.
I just feel like there's no space for me in these conversations.
Yeah, fuck. So hard to navigate.
I feel like there's a lot of ways this relationship calls me to step up.
And I feel woefully inadequate and terrified that I won't be able to.
I'm terrified of failing.
Terrified that I'm not good enough.
That I'm not enough.
I feel like I am not enough basically.
This relationship brings out some big things in me.
And I think I was going through all of this, feeling all these things and being so overwhelmed.
And then her saying, me saying, "Are you going to break up?"
No, she was clearly thinking about breaking up with me too.
It was like an avenue of a way out to not have to feel all that overwhelmed anymore.
I just couldn't deal with it.
And that's okay.
I ran, but that's okay.
It was a fucking lot.
And then I felt so much.
I felt really excited about the prospect of being able to have sex with other people and meet other people.
And because I had the experience of being with Holly, I felt like maybe now those things would be okay.
They're not.
I've discovered, I think.
But that was part of where that excitement came from.
And I was holding onto that.
Part of why I was saying no as well was that is a part of me that I need to accept and embrace.
That there's a part of me that feels like I have missed out and desperately wants.
That experience, it feels like I missed out in my twenties.
There's a part of me that feels like I never went out drinking and doing drugs and fucking and doing all those things.
I've lived a boring life and I want to have some of those experiences even though at the same time I don't.
I don't want to take drugs.
I don't want to go out drinking.
I feel like I'm supposed to or something.
But I do want to fuck a bunch of people and maybe meet, you know, have casual relationships and that kind of thing.
And there's a part of me that feels like I missed out on all those things and that's missing and I'm going to regret that.
And I never accept, I never really paid attention to that and I just dove into like things were hard with Holly.
They were overwhelming.
I didn't want to deal with that anymore.
And then I was excited because I felt maybe I'll be able to be with other people and not like a people who aren't.
I don't have to be with Holly more like a.
I can explore those sides of myself that I feel like I've never been able to because now I'll maybe be a bit more confident because I've had this feeling, this experience before now.
I've got my first relationship out of the way.
Now I can like embrace that part of myself a bit.
Explore these things.
And that led me also to be saying to say, no, I don't want to get back together with Holly.
And that's I have to I have to be OK with that.
Because that's a part of me.
That's a part of me that it's OK to want those things.
Yeah, but I think I and I think Holly has talked about maybe being open to doing that in our relationship like him.
Having a little bit of a bit of an open relationship.
And I'm incredibly excited about that, but I think I'm also ashamed.
I think I felt a lot of shame about sex.
I think a big part of that is because I felt ashamed of being a virgin quite a lot, actually.
The difference between how free I feel to talk about this stuff and like a day or two ago when mum and dad were here is insane.
It makes such a difference.
But having said that, at the same time, it's also part of the reason I wasn't doing it wasn't just because I went here, it's because I was also trying.
I get so like so pulled in multiple directions and I find it so hard to balance things in my head.
I get overwhelmed. You know, like I want to do my 3D printing and I also need to look for a job.
And then there's all these other admin stuff that I want to need to do.
And this is really important. I want to want to need to do this.
This is probably the thing I should be prioritizing, but I don't feel capable of it.
And like all this this thing's important.
I'm going to do this today and then I like it find it really hard.
So I kind of struggle and then, you know, applying for one job takes me all fucking day because it's slightly difficult.
So I keep pulling away from it.
I get pulled in all these different directions.
If we were going to try again, I think it's probably important that we probably shouldn't live together for a while.
Because I think it's much, I think we probably need that distance between us.
It's too, it's too, I think it's too hard for me to process some of my feelings when I'm around her all the time.
And...
Yeah, I don't know.
Um...
Yeah, I think we just we need to engineer some separation into our relationship basically.
Because otherwise we get so intertwined.
And I find it so, I get so overwhelmed. I think she probably does too.
I probably need that space to process things.
And now it's just flashed into my mind all the like small little things that I was frustrated about or like...
Um...
You know...
Or like things that I was thinking derisively about or was struggling with or was annoyed about or...
I don't know, I can't quite put my finger on the word I'm trying to think of but her not brushing her teeth.
Um... I don't know, in some ways her weight but not at all at the same time.
You know, I'm thinking, am I actually attracted to her? I definitely am.
I don't know.
These little things.
I don't know man, my brain trying to be like, oh no I remember all these other things.
And then feeling, I felt so much shame about those too.
Ugh.
