I'm finding myself thinking about Holly a lot.
Mostly because she emailed me yesterday about Pippi being put down, which is a whole other
fucking kettle of worms, kettle of worms, kettle of fish.
But my therapist Cathy told me I should be trying to, there's nothing I can really do
about things with Holly at the moment.
We need to honor that three month commitment.
And it's okay to distract myself when I'm thinking about Holly.
But the trouble I'm having is that I feel a lot of internal pressure to not distract
myself to engage with those feelings and try and work out what I want and where I'm at
and what I want to do moving forward because I feel like I owe Holly that and because I
don't want to hurt her.
Because I know she wants to get back together and I don't know what I want and she's kind
of waiting for me.
And I've told her that I want to engage with the things that she has said and I want to
take responsibility for those things.
And I feel a lot of internal pressure that I feel like it's the right thing to do to
do that and not leave her hanging.
I don't want to leave her hanging, I don't want to string her along and I don't want
to hurt her.
And also just this general drive I have to try and improve myself and not just push things
down and try and actually process some of this stuff.
Because I feel like I have a duty almost to face some of this stuff.
Duty to myself, a duty to Holly, a duty to try and grow and stop doing things the way
I used to do them where I would just try to avoid things and try and actually face some
of this stuff.
But that's kind of at odds with what Cathy's told me and it's kind of at odds with, I don't
know, it's all confusing.
But I definitely probably should talk to Cathy about what I've just said.
