Part of my qualms about getting back together with Holly was that it often didn't feel like
- I had a sense that it wasn't a very secure relationship, but that's not necessarily entirely
true.
I didn't always feel like I could rely on her, and there was a lot of problems and misunderstandings,
but we also always tried our best for each other as much as we could.
I don't know.
And she is very good at - she is very emotionally mature and very good at taking responsibility
for things and eventually good at listening.
She can be really impetuous and emotional in the moment, and get really triggered and
reactive, but with some time and distance, she usually is - she's almost always very
understanding, you know, and reflective on the way she's acted or what she's done.
And she showed me that again when she came up, and that last conversation we had over
the phone, she showed me all of that again.
How willing she is to take responsibility, and how with time to process and space away,
how - I can't quite put my finger on it, but how mature she is, how much she's willing
to try to make things work and communicate and take responsibility for things and accountability
and try and listen.
Do her best to listen.
She is very good at that, not always in the moment.
She's sometimes actually very bad at it in the moment.
She gets very swept away in emotions, but with reflection, she's actually very, very
good at it.
That's one of the things I loved about our relationship, and it's one of the things that
filled me with confidence and made me think we could work, and it's now one of the things
that's pulling me back to her a bit.
I think part of the difficulties of while - after we'd broke it up and Holly was still
up here, was that everything was still so fresh, and there'd been so much emotion and
so much pain and so much overwhelm, and we were both really exhausted and we just couldn't
deal with it anymore.
So we kept not talking about things but then needing to talk about things, but - you know,
so much of what happened between breaking up and her leaving and how things ended really
badly was because of that, because of all the things we needed to talk about that we
just couldn't - we just didn't have the capacity for.
And maybe now, with some time and space apart, maybe now we have - and we've both had time
to reflect and calm down and process things and not be completely overwhelmed.
We both get overwhelmed.
We've had time to step aside from that.
Maybe what we need is periodic breaks away from each other to be able to process things,
because our relationship can be quite - was quite intense.
I'm worried I'm talking - I'm just emotional and talking myself into things, but maybe
there is something to this.
I think if we were at everything in continue we probably need to build these kind of - need
to build breaks into our relationship so that we can have that time away from each other
to process things.
You know, it's been like two months since we spoke, in which we were really speaking,
and there's so much to talk about.
I don't know.
But maybe that's what we needed.
We just needed some time and space apart.
And that's kind of what she showed me the last time we talked, which I think is part
of why I'm feeling the way I am.
And I think it's part of why I was feeling the way I was previously, because of that
overwhelm and I didn't - I needed to talk about things, but I couldn't, because I was
so fucking exhausted and overwhelmed, and so was she, and she didn't want to talk about
it and it was all just so painful.
Now we've had time to get through the hurt and pain a bit and process things a bit separately
and away from each other.
Maybe that's what we needed and we can try to talk again.
I'm just worried about talking to her without having resolved some of these - the things,
you know, the money stuff and the value stuff and whatever the third thing was.
And I'm really worried.
I'm not really worried.
I'm not actually that worried at all, to be honest.
I'm kind of getting swept up in it.
I'm kind of - it's like I'm allowing myself to feel my love for her again, rather than
just crushing it.
I don't know.
I guess I'd like to talk to my therapist about this feelings coming and going.
Like at the moment I'm just - previously I was feeling so fucking avoidant and not wanting
to talk at all and feeling really like I didn't want to be engaging with Holly at all because
it was all so painful.
And now it doesn't feel like that.
Now I want to rush back - I just kind of want to jump on a plane and go down and see her
straight away.
And then I go throughout my day and I think I would feel nothing about it.
You know, I look at other people online and don't really think about Holly all that much
and then I do.
So much.
Maybe Holly is right.
A lot of it was situational and what we needed was time and space apart.
I'm just worried about - and you know she said she'd be willing to try out all the other
ways of doing things.
I'm just worried about getting back together and I think this is the biggest thing for
me and it's - I said I want to talk to the therapist about it and that's why I said no.
I'm worried about getting back together.
Her being desperate to want to talk to me all the time and you know interacting with
me and me feeling avoided and wanting to do that and then feeling terrible and guilty
about that.
You know, this space that we have had I think it's important for us in some ways because
we both - we get overwhelmed.
I think we maybe both get overwhelmed by our relationship.
We need a bit more space apart but then sometimes not.
I'm really worried about finding that balance and awful feelings I get about the differences
between Holly and I in that.
You know I feel like she's chasing me and I'm falling away.
I feel so guilty about that.
I feel terrible feeling - I'm constantly worrying about whether I love her enough.
If we can find a way to manage that and take the space we both need.
I don't know.
That's a big part of what I wanted out of relationship and it wasn't what we were getting.
I don't know man.
I mean we'd get that space living in two different states but I really want to talk to my therapist
about this specifically.
[Silence]
