I'm feeling a fairly intense and building sense of tension and discomfort.
It feels a little bit like I want to tear out of my skin.
I also at the same time feel really tired and lethargic and apathetic.
I keep finding myself wanting to stop doing everything I'm doing and just lie on the couch and do nothing.
I'm feeling like maybe I need to be upping my pills a bit, but I'm a bit concerned that maybe what I'm feeling is because of the pills.
Don't drink that fucking water! Don't do it, birds!
I'm feeling a little bit like I maybe need to go for a run or a cycle, actually.
I think I maybe need a bit of about a physical activity.
I'm feeling a bit like I did in Korea where I've got this overdose of nervous tension energy.
I'm going to stand outside. It looks really nice in the warmth in the sun.
Yeah.
I've just booked a bunch of sessions with my therapist up until the end of the year.
She's only available Fridays and Saturdays, unfortunately.
If I get that job, I'm going to have to change because I obviously can't do Fridays.
I'm just feeling everything I do at the moment, no matter what I do.
I get about five, ten minutes into it and then I feel this big urge to stop doing it and do something else.
It's like no matter what I do, it's not the right thing to be doing.
It's not what I feel like I need to do or something.
I'm feeling absolutely no peace at the moment. I think I'm feeling very much the opposite of peace.
I felt quite peaceful here before at Mum and Dad's place, particularly in the time periods when life was a little bit like this.
Mum was out in the garden, Dad was at work and I'd be able to sit out in the sunlight.
I found that often quite peaceful.
This place was a refuge. I'm not feeling like that anymore.
I'm feeling like I want to be elsewhere.
I don't want to be in Brisbane anymore. I want to move on.
I think I'm just feeling desperate to get somewhere. I don't know.
I'm finally doing this talking really hard too.
I'm finding with the state that Holly and I are in where it's like uncertain what we're doing.
She clearly wants to get back together.
We're staying in contact at the moment, but long term we're trying to stay in contact.
We're trying to explore whether we want to get back together.
In that state where this really liminal twilight state we're in, I can't be with anybody else.
I can't do it. I'm finding myself losing interest.
I was excited to begin with just after we broke up.
I was excited to take what I'd learned from Holly and hopefully be able to meet a few other people.
I finally... it wasn't.
I hadn't not been in a relationship yet.
I've gotten over that hurdle, but now I'm not excited. I'm not even really thinking about it.
I do still find myself sometimes thinking about sex and thinking about going and seeing a prostitute.
Other than that, I'm not finding myself wanting to.
I still feel a little bit of that mild interest and nervousness and pressure when I'm at parties.
Like I should try and talk to girls kind of thing.
That thing I don't like, that feeling that feels like it treats women as not a conquest,
but somebody to like a... I'm not treating them as a person, I'm treating them as...
I do feel like it does feel a little bit objectifying.
It makes me feel nervous. It makes me feel uncomfortable at a lot of those parties.
It makes me feel a lot of internal pressure. It makes me feel... I feel a lot of internal pressure.
And... yeah.
I think that's part of also why I'm leaning more back towards getting back together with Holly
or thinking about it a lot more because I am finding that I don't know if I really actually want to be with other people
or have sex with other people. Maybe I do want to be with Holly and have sex with her.
I'm not excited about that anymore. I'm just kind of lost and confused and in pain.
I'm lost and confused and in pain about so many things.
Like my whole life, what I'm going to do, what I'm doing with myself.
Everything's kind of in the air, it feels like.
Yeah. I don't know. I don't know what to do.
I'm having more and more days where I feel really grossed as bad.
I feel really apathetic, hard to do anything and just a bit crushed physically.
I feel like I'm crushed down and there's no point to anything and everything's hopeless.
I'm having more and more days like that.
But I don't want to go running back to Holly to stop feeling those things
because of some idea that I'm feeling those things because of where our relationship is at.
I want to go back to Holly for the right reasons.
Just making this much more complicated because I need to know some of the things I was struggling with I need to know about.
I need to be aware that our relationship was triggering for me.
I don't think any relationship would be triggering for me, but I think our relationship was very triggering for me.
I put up a lot of shame for reasons I don't understand, which I'm trying to explore with Kathy.
I'm feeling a lot of resistance to doing this exercise that she's gotten me to do.
Partly because it's the weekend.
I think during the weeks I've either been feeling like I need to look for a job
and when I'm not doing that I'm obsessed with doing my 3D printing.
And today I feel really torn because I feel like I'm stuck.
I feel like I need to do it and this feeling of tension isn't going to go away until I do it.
Until I bite the bullet.
And I feel like it will make me feel better.
But I also feel like I want to do my 3D printing but I also don't.
I kind of don't want to do nothing.
I don't know, it's confusing. I'm just going to go try and do it.
I do want to talk to Kathy about my obsessiveness a bit around my hobbies.
How obsessive I get about it.
Once I start I feel like I can't stop until it's done kind of thing.
It just kind of takes over my life.
I find it very hard to pull away from it and out of it.
I've realised at least one of the things I struggled with about,
one of the reasons I struggled with Holly not working was because it felt like her not working.
It meant that she didn't understand or listen to what I was going through with work.
Like when she asked me at Christmas to just take time off in the week before Christmas
because I'm casual and I can do that.
That was like...
And then got annoyed and angry at me for not taking that time off because she had to deal with Christmas on her own.
When I told her "Don't fucking buy shit from my family. They're not going to care.
You don't have to do this."
And she got annoyed at me for not taking time off when I fucking couldn't.
I don't know if I explained how I was feeling about it,
but I didn't really feel like she was going to fucking listen.
Like...
Her telling me that is like completely fucking tone deaf.
It's like you have no idea what the fuck you're talking about at all.
I can't just fucking take time off.
I mean, I can. I am casual and I can just take time off, but that's not how it fucking works.
It's not as easy as that.
There's all this other shit going on, all this other pressure, all these other considerations I have to take into account,
and you're just fucking ignoring all of that and ignoring all the pressure you're putting on me
because you won't fucking listen to me about Christmas gifts
because I'm a man and I don't know what I'm talking about when it comes to gifts
despite it being my fucking family.
There was so many ins- not so many.
There was- there was several others. I don't remember right now, but I know several times.
It felt like definitely a lot of last year I was going through so fucking-
there was definitely a lot of shit that she was going through that I didn't understand.
All of the stuff to do with her mental health I just didn't really understand.
We didn't understand each other, and she probably feels much the same about me,
about those things as I do about her with work, but it just-
on top of the lack of independence and my values around money and her combination of spending habits
and lack of inability at work and how we want to be able to do things.
I wanted to fucking go- I really, really wanted- I highly, highly valued being able to go on a trip with her
to Japan, travel overseas, and it just was never going to materialise because she couldn't get her shit together.
I didn't want to have to fucking support her. I kept having to pay for things.
All of that stuff.
Knowing that I could rely on her, not feeling like I could rely on her if things went bad.
Um, you know?
All the shit with Send A Link.
And the fact that we're together and it's gonna fuck us over,
which you know, subconsciously I think we probably both knew about.
We knew about it when we moved out, then somehow just forgot about it.
Um, but I think yeah, this- the fact that it just felt like there was so much shit last year
where I was so fucking overwhelmed from trying to work and look after her and do stishy around the house
and study and still have a fucking life.
That- there was shit that she wanted me to do or she was getting angry at me about
that it just felt so fucking unfair because it felt like she had no fucking clue what she was talking about.
No fucking clue what I was dealing with.
Because she doesn't fucking work and she just sits on her ass at home all day.
Not that that's necessarily what she was always doing.
Often it was, it's not just sitting on her ass. She was frozen and fucking mental health was tanking.
You know, I understand that. I have been dealing with that too.
But she was. The action she was taking was sitting on her ass watching TV most of the day.
While I was fucking busting my fucking guts.
And it felt like she didn't understand all the- any of the shit I was going through.
And when I tried to talk to her about my feelings of over time overwhelm,
she just fucked me off and just thought I was being stupid basically.
Like how- how the fuck is that supposed- that's- that is the major source of pain about last year.
And that's why the big sources of pain about my pain and frustration around her not working.
It just feels like she can't fucking understand where I'm coming from.
I want her to get a fucking drink. You know, all this shit she says.
I want to say to her, fucking get a full time job and then tell me that.
Then tell me to do this shit.
That, you know, show me you able to do this shit while working full time.
Cooking the amount that you cook.
And fucking haranguing me about it.
You know, cleaning shit that, you know, you fucking half the time you didn't clean anyway.
And you weren't even working.
So get a fucking full time job and then tell me any of that shit.
Rather than just sitting on your fucking arse all day.
Fuck you.
That's really hard because if we are going to get back together, we can't just get back together.
We're gonna have to talk about all of this shit.
I'm gonna have to tell her all of this.
I'm gonna have to tell her how I feel.
The way she hurt me and my doubts.
You know.
I need to not, I can't hide this stuff from her.
Because that's, I did.
I hid my doubts and I hid my fears and pain.
And that's what ended up breaking up Eric.
That's why I fell apart.
I need to, you know, we are not together.
If we're going to get back together, we need to do it on a firm foundation.
That firm foundation has to come from us both putting everything out there.
Which is going to mean a lot of fucking pain and discomfort.
You know.
She wants to just get back together but that's ignoring all of her fucking problems.
And maybe she doesn't realize some of the problems that are there because I haven't told her.
It's not like, yes, a lot of it, there was a lot of fucking stuff going on.
But it's not just those things.
It's not just situational.
It doesn't matter what situation you're in, Holly.
You are going to struggle to work.
Maybe that will change.
I don't know.
Maybe the situation was that you were in Brisbane and Melbourne makes all the difference.
I fucking doubt it.
To be honest.
And I either need to know why I'm struggling with that and know that I can be okay with it.
And actually be okay with it.
Or I need to know that you can, or not those things, and I need to know that you can get a fucking job.
But we can't just ignore the problem.
You being unable to get a job is a problem for me.
For multiple reasons.
It's not as simple as just get a fucking job.
Like, you know, stop being lazy and get a job.
I understand.
There are a bunch of ways I also struggle with work.
But there are reasons that I need you.
I need to know that I can rely on you.
I need to be able to start working towards fucking finding...
We are in our 30s.
I can't fucking keep doing this.
I can't keep being fucking destitute.
It needs to change.
And I know you want the same thing.
But not wanting it and being able to put it into action are not the same thing.
And you have consistently shown me that you can't put it into action.
I know you want things to be different.
I know you want to change.
But wanting to and being able to are not the same thing.
And I do think you can probably do it.
I don't think you think you can do it.
And that's...
You felt that I didn't believe in you.
All you fucking showed me again and again was you struggling.
All I...
Like, you know, you saying you would do things and then not doing them.
You showed me that.
That's the evidence you showed me again and again.
How am I supposed to pull...
I know that hurts.
I know it triggers really fucking deep wounds in you.
And like feeling like you're a fucking massive letdown to people around you.
Unfortunately, you let me down.
I didn't feel like I could rely on you.
This is...
You know, I don't want to hurt you with that.
Which is why I was never able to talk to you about it.
But...
We can't have a fucking relationship based on not...
You know, me not hurting you because of me not asking for what I need because of worrying about hurting you because of your intense fucking wounds.
That's just not going to work.
And that's what was happening.
There were so many things where I just couldn't feel like...
I didn't feel like I could talk to you about it because I didn't want to hurt you because of how deep some of your fucking wounds are.
All the stuff about work and, you know, feeling lazy...
Feeling like you're lazy and selfish and a waste of space and all of that shit.
Yes, it's your problem to deal with, not mine.
But that's not true.
I do have to deal with it.
I have to deal with my emotions around it.
I have to deal with how it makes you feel.
I have to deal with...
You know, it's not just...
It's a you...
That's a you problem.
That's not fucking how it works.
It is not as simple as just...
We had a bad run.
There was a bunch of fucking problems.
And I don't know how to talk to you about this...
About them without it fucking tearing you to pieces.
[SIGH]
You not being able to work is a problem for me.
It's as simple as that.
It's not as...
Like, the reasons aren't simple.
And it's not as simple as just fucking get a job, you lazy shit.
It's nothing to do with that.
I understand.
I know.
I don't want to pressure you.
I know you don't want to work.
I know you want to...
Desperately want to get into something that you feel like you can do
that you care about and it feels worthwhile.
And you're fucking tired.
So goddamn fucking tired of doing shitty fucking dead-end jobs that you hate.
You know, you're tired of working with shitty fucking...
And the anxiety...
I understand all of that.
But that doesn't stop it from being something that I need.
I need to know that you can work.
I need to know that we can start working towards a future together.
I need to know that we can be financially stable.
And we're not going to be fucking 50 years old and destitute
like we currently are.
I'm at the point in my life where I just can't do that shit anymore.
I can't be fucking destitute anymore.
I need to start building some fucking stability.
And I know you want the same thing.
But wanting and doing are not the same thing.
You can fucking want it all you want, but you weren't doing it.
I know you were working on being able to do it.
But being working on being able to do it is not doing it.
It's part of the process you need to go through to get to that point.
But it's not having a job.
It's not proof.
It's not evidence to me that you can get a job and keep it.
You know?
And I don't know, it might take you quite a while,
which is more time that we have to be, you know,
not a stable future together.
I need to know that I can rely on you if fucking things go wrong.
I need to know that I'm not going to have to fucking constantly pay for everything.
That it's going to be a relatively equal, like somewhat equal partnership.
Not me fucking paying for everything.
I don't do anything that's more than just fucking sit around at home.
There are so many reasons.
And I also understand because I also am desperately fucking tired of work
and capitalism and everything around it.
But I don't see a way out, Holly.
The only way I can see is to work and save like fucking crazy and invest.
It's the only thing, the only possibility I can see,
which is why I care so much about this, why I value this so much.
I need to know that you can do the same thing, and you can't currently.
And you said you broke up with me because you felt like I didn't believe in you.
How can I bel-
All you showed me, the only evidence you showed me the entire time we were together
was how much you struggled with money and work.
You never showed me anything other than that.
How am I supposed to believe you're just gonna be able to-
It's gonna be okay, I'll just-
You know, you kept saying we'll get down to Melbourne and I'll just get a job.
Like it's- you know, just flick your fucking fingers and you did- that's how it works.
No! How am I supposed to believe that when you've been doing-
when you've done nothing but the opposite the entire time we've known each other?
And yes, I'm sure being in Melbourne probably does make a difference.
But I can only- I want to believe in you, Holly.
I want this to be okay.
And I honestly- I think I do believe in you more than you believe in yourself
because I actually think you're quite capable at work.
I think you're more capable than you think of
because there were so many fucking times when you came home from work
anxious as- you went to work anxious as fuck in the morning and you came home
confident and you're like, "That was a good day. I learnt a bunch of things.
I did a good job."
You never fucking remembered that shit.
You always only ever focused on the "I was anxious before I went to work."
You were fucking capable. You were a very capable person.
You were a fucking good bookseller.
You just don't know that. You can't recognise that.
You fall to pieces.
I see that. I see in you what you can't see.
I know you could do it.
I know that your skills mean that you could do it.
I believe in you and your abilities.
What I don't know if I believe in is your faith in yourself
because you have an enormous lack of self-esteem
and you think you're fucking terrible at everything.
And I've seen that play out again and again and again.
I think if you can get past that you'd be fucking fantastic. You'd be fine.
It's the getting past that that's the problem.
That's the part I'm not sure you're capable of
or that we probably are but it will take a long fucking time.
I don't know how long I can wait.
If we were in our twenties it might be different but we're getting old.
I know you feel these same pressures and you're putting those same pressures on yourself
so I don't want to have to...
The thing is, that's part of why it's a problem.
Part of why I don't want to get back together
because I don't want to put this pressure on you.
You already put that pressure on yourself.
I want you to be okay.
I want you to feel safe and loved and seen
but at the same time I also need that.
And there's no way to resolve that either.
I somehow make that feeling go away
which I don't seem to be able to.
You somehow be able to get a job
which you don't seem to be able to get to do
or we don't stay together.
You can't meet my need currently.
I know it's something you're working on
and you have been working on it for years
and I don't know how long I can wait.
I've already waited two years.
I'll be foot flopping back and forward every fucking week.
How long do you need me to wait?
I understand that it hurts.
That you have such deep wounds about this
and me talking about a trick was going to trigger the fuck out of it.
So this is going to be incredibly triggering for you and hard for you.
But I don't want that to be the case.
I don't want to do that to you.
That's part of why I feel like we can't, we weren't working.
And I can't communicate with you about it
because of this enormous fucking wound you have about it.
I don't feel capable of doing that.
Because when I talked to you about it
you felt like I didn't believe in you
and then you wanted to break up with me.
I don't know if I can deal with your problems.
The deep fucking problems you have because of your PTSD.
I don't know if I can deal with those things.
I was terrified that I couldn't.
That was why I was falling together
because I don't know if I can do this.
I think this might be too much for me.
Part of that, part of it was my problems.
A lot of it was our situation.
A lot of it was the things where we ended up.
But a pretty decent bunch of it was your problems.
Your inability to work, your inability to get out of the house,
your inability to be self-sufficient, all of those things.
I don't know if I can deal with those things.
I don't know if I am capable of dealing with that.
With your problems.
And I know you want to just click your fingers
and it'll be fine, we're back together.
But that's just like putting a bandaid on a fucking severed limb.
On a bullet wound.
It's not as simple as that.
And I feel like you're treating it acting as if it is as simple as that.
As if it all was just because of our situation
and we'll be in a different situation and things will be fine.
You know?
And I think a lot of the time you lie to yourself
because you desperately need hope.
And I understand that, but it makes you short-sighted sometimes.
It means you don't see things.
It means you refuse to see things.
And I don't know if I can deal with that.
This is all stuff I need to talk to my therapist about.
I am feeling more and more like it's maybe worth giving it a shot
but this is making me remember why I was hesitant.
Which is important.
Maybe it's confusing, but it's important.
I'm feeling more willing to, to try again.
But I need to take these things into account
and I need to talk to my therapist about these things.
God, there's so much, so much to do.
My brain just won't give me a break.
It keeps telling me to fucking get my shit like...
Why have I not got a job yet? Why am I not in a career?
Why am I not making money? Why am I still in Brisbane?
You don't have to rush to be with somebody else.
You don't have to rush to have sex with somebody else.
But that doesn't mean you have to rush to get back together with Hulky either.
I just, I feel this pressure because I know she's waiting.
Because I've told her, I've basically told her wait for me.
That's the hard part.
That's where that pressure, the pressure comes from.
The way I feel like I do need to rush back to her.
Aside from missing her and wanting to.
