I'm reading page 46 of the Breakup Monologues, and it's made me think of something that I really need to be aware of with Holly.
And that's... if we're going to get back together, if I'm going to date her again, I need to be okay with her as she is.
Basically because, so she says here...
[Reading page 46 of the Breakup Monologues]
[Reading page 46 of the Breakup Monologues]
[Reading page 46 of the Breakup Monologues]
I need to be aware of that. You know, the idea of if I'm going to be with Holly, I shouldn't be with her.
Like, um, you know, she's not a fun fling, but it's also like...
[I'll just watch the line here]
[Reading page 46 of the Breakup Monologues]
I shouldn't have to fix Holly for us to work. If I feel like I need to fix her, then we don't work. Basically.
And the thing is, you know, like, if I stay with her long enough, she'll get over a PTSD, or if I stay with her long enough, she'll be able to work.
I didn't really know what I was getting in for when I chose to be with her the first time around.
And now we've broken up. If we do get back together, I do know what to expect. I do know what I'm in for. And I have to be...
If I know that, you know, she said, "I told you all along I have PTSD and it's going to impact me."
She let me know. She told me when we broke up, just before we broke up.
"I have PTSD and I might be out, even if I can get... and I really struggle to work, and even if I can get a job now, it might come back and it might happen again at some point in my life and I might be destitute again.
I might be impacted in the same way. I'll be right back to where I am."
She knows that. She's aware of that. And she's not... I don't know if she's okay with it, but she's... she factors that in. She's aware of that.
She's aware of her limitations and she tries to overcome them, and she does the best she can.
But she... there's only so much she can do. I have to be aware of that too, and I can't... it wouldn't... it's not fair.
It wouldn't be fair to be with her again, expecting her to be able to overcome that.
I'll get together with you again, knowing that this is probably going to happen, and not being okay with that.
And that basically comes down to the money side of things, feeling like things are unequal and not being able to get the financial security that I want for us,
and not being able to do the things I want for us, and feeling like I'm not enough to... being terrified of being not enough,
feeling like I'm feeling overwhelmed by feeling like I'm not enough for, and being terrified of her PTSD, feeling like I just... it's too much for me.
Her illness is too much for me. What it requires of me is too much for me.
All of those doubts and fears and shames and guilt I had around not feeling like I was going to be able to be there for her in the way that she needed.
And I can't pretend otherwise. If we get back together, I have to go into it knowing that that's going to be the case.
You know, I opted out previously for a range of reasons, and if we get back together, I need to get... we need to get back together with the knowledge that that's probably going to happen again.
I can't get back together with the idea that that will change, because it might never.
And, you know, I miss her so much, I love her so much, and if I get back together because of that, and then have the same problems a year or two down the line, like, how unfair is that?
But at the same time, how much is that going to confirm all of her feelings about things if I leave her because of her PTSD?
And am I just being scared? Like, I don't know.
It's so hard to tell the line between what's actually legitimately too much for me, what's me just being scared and running away, what I should stand up for for myself, for what I need for myself.
It's so fucking complicated, it's so hard. I love her, I want to be with her, but I don't know if I can be.
I don't know if I'm enough to give her what she needs, to look after her the way she needs to be looked after.
Which doesn't really need to be looked after, but I don't know if I'm strong enough to deal with her mental illness on top of my own shit, on top of the pressures of any relationship.
And I feel so much shame about that.
And that's a problem in itself, feeling shame about that, because that drives me to act in ways that maybe I shouldn't, because I'm trying to escape that shame.
Like, I maybe want to get back with her to escape, aside from the feeling of love and missing her, and the ways that we hold up for each other.
But I probably in some ways want to get back together with her to escape the feeling of shame about not, of feeling like I'm not enough.
Feeling like I'm not good enough, feeling like I'm weak, feeling like the relationship is too much for me.
I was terrified so much last year that the relationship was too much for me, because there was a part of me that knew it was.
It was too much for me. The relationship, our relationship was too much for me.
And I fell apart, and I fucking, I like melted into a fucking puddle because of the guilt and shame around feeling like that.
So knowing that, and that actually being the case.
So, before I think at all about getting back together with her, as much as I want to, like there's a big part of me that desperately wants to just go straight down the middle.
Um...
I...
I need to confront this stuff. I need to confront that shame I feel, the feeling of being weak and not enough, and knowing the fear around not being enough for our relationship.
And how that holds me back in our relationship and stops me from, overwhelms me in our relationship.
Um, and I need to work out, you know, what I actually feel about her PTSD and it's stopping, and the effect it has on her and it's stopping her from working.
I need to understand why her not working and not being good with money, why it makes me feel the way I do, what actually I feel about it and why it makes me feel that way.
I need to understand all of those things, otherwise I'm just jerking her around.
And I'm already kind of jerking her around because I'm saying I don't know.
Maybe the best thing to do would be say, "I love you."
And, um, I hope someday, one day, we can try again. Possibly. But I don't feel like I am enough for this relationship.
I feel... I feel incapable of dealing with this relationship and the shame around this relationship and the work I have to do to do to overcome that is going to probably be fucking years.
It's not three months, it's probably fucking years.
Which means the only fair thing to do is probably to say goodbye to you.
So that I'm not holding you down and I'm not holding myself down.
I'm not holding you back and I'm not, you know, trickling you along attached to me still.
But I don't want to do that.
It's fucking hard.
I need to talk to my therapist about all of this. This is another really important one.
