So, what am I trying to talk about? This is, so, at home this morning, mum and dad were,
I don't know if it was a disagreement, something was going on between mum and dad. I think
it was like dad getting, dad was getting frustrated about something like, I think they're going
out shopping today and they're doing a bunch of things this week, like going shopping and
looking after Gran and going to a funeral, a few different things. And, well, I guess
they're, I think they're going to a funeral, they're going shopping this weekend, they're
going to a funeral this coming week. And, then I guess next weekend is looking after
Gran weekend. I started noticing some patterns in the ways my parents interact and the ways
that I react to the way they interact and kind of like the way the household feels,
which would have been present in my childhood. It feels like kind of this threatening hall
kind of falls over the house. Nobody's really talking, this is kind of like tense, mildly,
a little bit threatening silence where nobody really wants to talk about anything. Like
mum and dad are, mum was trying to, dad was clearly a little bit frustrated or annoyed
and stressed. And mum was trying to say all these different things like, do you want to
move to doing, I can tell Gran that we'll clean the house once a month instead of once
a fortnight or we can skip the funeral, et cetera, et cetera. And dad was kind of just
giving these really short curt responses that were like, no, don't worry about it kind of
thing. We have to go, I'm guessing, I'm interpreting here, but I'm guessing that he doesn't want
to, he's feeling overwhelmed because there's too many things going on. He doesn't want
to do them all, but he doesn't know how to say no to any of them. Doesn't feel like he
can. So he's just like doing his thing that he does and just grinning and bearing and
doing the things he doesn't want to do and fucking getting all pissy about it. And then
mum reacts to that and gets really tense and anxious and worried that he's angry at her
and they don't communicate and it just kind of becomes this really uncomfortable, I feel
uncomfortable. I was noticing it. It made me want to leave, but I was also not like,
I felt like mum wanted to talk to me. She came and sat next to me and then just kind
of didn't say anything and got up and left. It's like she needed to vent her anxiety or
her stress, her distress. And I'm guessing she probably feels worried and ashamed because
she feels like she's dragging dad into these things because she can't do them herself.
It's all interpretation. I can't see that stuff. So what I can see is what it definitely
feels like, what I can observe happening and what I'm observing of myself reacting. What
I can observe happening is when dad gets frustrated or annoyed, the whole household closes up.
It becomes this really tense, anxious atmosphere where nobody's really talking. Nobody really
wants to talk about what's wrong. Mum kind of tries to talk about it or vents to me.
She comes and kind of like either complains to me or vents to me. And dad just kind of
like becomes quite short, although mostly with mum, not really with me. It rebuffs her attempts
at communication. It feels like nobody's allowed to talk about their emotions.
It just becomes this tense atmosphere where mum's sighing a lot and looking really downcast
and sad and anxious and dad's really kind of short. He doesn't really talk to anyone
about it. Mum kind of talks to me. It just feels like this really closed up threatening...
I interpret it as a threat, but it feels heavy. It feels uncomfortable. It feels like this
kind of heavy cloud over the whole house, tense, etc. And how I react is I feel a little
bit of a stress ball in my chest. I become hyper aware of... I try to focus on other
things but I keep finding myself paying... without really being able to control it, I
just find myself paying a lot of attention to what they're doing, how their mannerisms,
how they're talking, how they're reacting, where they are. I try to focus on other things
and I can to an extent, but I also find myself thinking of... I'm trying to not care and
just get on with my life, but I clearly do. I'm clearly wrapped up in the atmosphere and
the environment, caught up in it. I get a bit stressed and today I got a bit... I got
annoyed with both of them being like "fuck you guys are so bad at communicating". Especially
after what I've learned over the last three years of being with Holly. "You guys are so
bad at this" and it makes me mad. It annoys the fuck out of me that you are both in your
sixties and you've never tried to do anything about this. You've never tried to resolve
this, you've never tried to grow past this, you've never tried to learn how to do this
better. You've just done this non-communicative dance for your whole fucking lives. And I
think that's why both of them are fucking unhappy to be honest. Neither of them are
really all that happy with their lives. It's because neither of them can fucking actually
say what they want or communicate about it. And I clearly have grown up in that... I grew
up in that environment and that clearly has had an effect on my feelings around anger
and emotion and conflict and confrontation. They don't do conflict... it just becomes
this really passive aggressive... not passive aggressive, but this really tense, nobody's
talking about anything, nothing's being resolved. And it just kind of... I don't know, eventually
goes away or something. It never really gets resolved. And that's what was modeled to me.
So now, confrontation and conflict is really horrifying and... not horrifying, but really
very, very uncomfortable for me. I can't ever remember mum and dad in front of... in my
vision, being able to see it, them sitting down and really actually talking about things
in a level... not even a calm way, just talking through things and coming to some kind of
conclusion. It was this and then when they were really mad, it would be punctuated...
like it got really bad, it would be punctuated with them yelling at each other or them being
really cold towards each other or frustrated with each other and disagreeing really heavily
like dad saying, "It's never your fault." Etc. And them kind of just storming away from
each other. That was it. That's been my experience of conflict and disagreement and communication.
And that has clearly, seriously fucking impacted me. And it makes me fucking mad. It makes
me mad the way that they do that. And that they have put no effort... they've never recognized
it and they've put no effort into trying to do anything about it. To improve their own
fucking lives and their relationship. And it really makes me respect and value Holly
more. Because of her ability to do that. And it makes me a bit proud of myself for pushing
through that... this conflict I felt. Even at the beginning when I didn't really know
how to do it, I was still way better than my parents. I still tried to see things from
that point of view and talk about things and communicate. And I got better at that with
time. And a lot of that was because of Holly giving me the space to do that. And her...
particularly last year she wasn't very understanding sometimes. Because she was obviously so...
swept up in so much... all that she was going through, which was a lot. But... you know,
that was a sign of a really fucking healthy relationship. In a lot of ways. We definitely
had problems. But our relationship was so much fucking healthier than my parents' relationship.
So much healthier. Like we were able to communicate so much more. And Holly was really... I'm
pretty decent at it. And compared to my parents, I could definitely be way better and I'm trying
to be. And there's anything to do with boundaries and conflict and particularly asking for what
I need when I think it's something that's going to hurt Holly is incredibly difficult
for me. And communicating with Holly about things that are really difficult and that
I think are going to hurt her is really difficult because I'm always sure I'm going to fuck
it up and do it in the wrong way and hurt her even more. But especially given some time
and space apart, she is very understanding. She's very willing to take accountability
for things and listen. I did feel very blamed last year. And like she wasn't listening.
But overall, the... and there was definitely times where I felt like... like there was
a pattern there in the relationship I felt of her kind of like lumping me with just being
like... applying feminists, you know, like "men do this", applying that to me. And even
though yes, it was something I was doing, but like just, you know, it's been like, you
know, "you're a man, you do this". That's too simplified. Being like, her getting really
annoyed and frustrated with me because of some thing that men don't do that she's aware
of it and frustrated about because of, you know, with her knowledge of feminism. And
then getting annoyed and like angry at me about it from through the lens of feminism
and not really listening to my, you know, why I don't do that or why I do that thing
or don't do that thing and how I feel. But, you know, that really only started happening
a lot last year. I really only noticed that being a big thing last year. And I do think
she can be a bit abrasive and abrupt in like her communication style in discussions. I
disagree with and I find it uncomfortable and I don't like but it also makes sense given
the family she, like her upbringing, that's what has been modelled for her. It just, the
way she discusses just feels a bit disrespectful sometimes. Not that she'd be saying, "well,
she does, it feels like she doesn't give the other person, me, space in discussions sometimes
when there's disagreement in like heated discussion, not heated discussion but things about feminism
and stuff." But, but the overall pattern of our relationship has been rupture and repair
and has been her being willing to listen and her being, she has enabled, like opened space
for me throughout our relationship for me to build the ability to communicate with her
and resolve conflicts and like have conflicts with her and resolve them. She doesn't do
what my parents do. She doesn't just get all surly and not talk about things. Yeah. She's
actually can be very, very good at communicating. Not always. She's human. Particularly not
when she's overwhelmed which she was a lot last year and I feel like part of the problem
is we both get overwhelmed a lot. But, you know, part of the reason I loved her and I
loved our relationship and it felt like our relationship had value and had legs and could
go somewhere was because of exactly that. That she actually, like we together were actually
quite good at communicating. We were actually pretty relatively good. We definitely could
be a lot better. I definitely could be way better. But we were compared to a lot of,
you know, compared to most people I know of the previous generation and honestly quite
a few people I know of our generation, like a few of the relationships, couples I've seen,
we were actually really quite good at resolving conflicts and communicating. And I, a lot
of that has to do with Holly. I value that and I try to do that but I find it very difficult.
I value that and I try to do that and I can be good at it but I also find it very difficult.
She opened a lot of space for me to do that. It's a big strength of hers and it's part
of why the relationship felt like it had so much promise. Yeah. I'd like to explore this
part of my relationship with Holly and this part of my parents' relationship and my relationship
to their, that and my reactions and things from their relationship, that part of their
relationship with my therapist. I haven't confronted the things that Holly said when
we kind of, after we, when she was leaving for July, although I think some of that for
Melbourne, by the way, I think some of that was probably just her lashing out in pain.
But so I haven't really confronted some of that, most of that yet because I was trying
to resolve my own, like process my own hurts first. I haven't really sat down and just
done that but I'm starting to feel like that is starting to, I am still processing it like
I'm starting to, particularly after that last conversation we had, I am starting doing this
and thinking about things and giving it time. Like that's the thing, I have to give it time.
I can't just brute force it and sit down and be like, "Bah, I've got to do this." It takes
me time. It takes me a long fucking time. Holly seems to be able to process this stuff
in like days. It takes me months to process what it seems to take her fucking days. But
I am starting to feel like I am processing it and I don't feel the same about it as I
did before. It's not this massive wound that I can't get past. I am starting to have some
more, some newer thoughts, some new feelings and thoughts about it and starting to feel
capable of moving on a little bit or addressing it or, yeah, I guess just, I don't know, I
think I am starting to process, particularly starting to think about how I feel about what
happened last year and Holly not listening to me and that kind of stuff. I have talked
about it to this, the stuff around feminism and our discussions. But yeah, I am starting
to feel like I am processing it. I think a side effect of the fact that it takes me so
long to process things is that I feel like often I want to talk about things multiple
times. This is often the same thing multiple times. Whereas for Holly it seems like she
wants to talk about it once and that's it, she's done and she doesn't want to talk about
it again. Or she gets frustrated when we talk about it a lot. Whereas I feel like we need
to kind of keep talking about it and approach it from different angles and like once is definitely
not enough for me because it takes me a lot of time to process things and I get new insights
and feel differently about it each time we talk about it kind of thing. I think for her
it feels like we've already talked about this, why are we talking about it again? We're
just kind of bashing our heads against the wall where it's like no, that's not what's
happening. I'm more able to express myself every time. I feel like you've listened to
me a little bit more every time. Yeah. I don't... talking about something once, that doesn't
resolve it for me. Like Holly has already said, she said some things that made me feel
a lot better. What made me feel heard about last year. She like directly addressed some
of the things I was struggling with. And for her, that's probably like that's resolved
now. But for me, it's not. I need her to do that again probably several times and listen
to me and I need to talk to her about it several more times. Yeah. And I'm starting to think
that yes, maybe I don't... there is definitely a part of me that wants to try being with
other people and have sex with people. And the sex thing is almost a separate thing in
some ways, but they're both tied to this feeling of having missed out. I think the feeling
of wanting to be with other people before I get back together with Holly is a combination
of feeling like I am at a disadvantage in our relationship, my relationship with Holly
and that I... it feels like she's more... it always kind of feels like she has to teach
me things. I feel like I'm always kind of behind in our relationship. I feel like I'm
less experienced than she is. It's wanting to resolve that by getting more experience
basically. But it's also a combination of wanting to explore other parts of myself and
what it's even like. It's like do I really know I want to be with Holly if I've never
been with anybody else kind of thing. I don't know what I'm missing out on with not being
with Holly kind of thing. It's just my only experience. And it's also just that feeling
of having missed out in my twenties, having not lived enough of my life kind of thing.
But then it's also like... particularly recently I am starting to feel more and more like I
don't really want to do that. I don't really actually care about other people that much.
And I'm starting to see more and more what was good about our relationship. I do need
to dive back into what I was struggling with and the overwhelm and all that kind of stuff.
But yeah, it's hard. Well I talked to my therapist about all of this stuff. It definitely feels
like not only did I need... processing my feelings around all of this, it definitely feels like
I didn't just need time. I needed a lot of time but I also needed space. I needed to
not be interacting with her and caught up in it. And I was definitely finding that last
year. It was so hard to process how I was feeling. I was so overwhelmed all the time
and I was so in it all the time and there was no separation. I was always around her.
I was always dealing with it, the feelings. It was like I couldn't get the space I needed
to actually... it feels like I can't really work out how I'm feeling and process things
and move through them and how I'm feeling and recognise it and move on without space
to myself to really... without quite a decent amount of time and space to myself. I just
can't seem to really do it around other people. Particularly when it's around the other person
who's causing those feelings. The feelings are about or to do with or they're wrapped
up in. Living with Holly last year, it was so hard and being around her all the time
that I just couldn't escape it. I couldn't ever get out of the bad feelings and the overwhelm
and the... I couldn't see the forest for the trees. I couldn't... yeah. I was so in it
all the time and I was up until quite recently to be honest, even after we'd broken up.
The first couple of months I was still very much in it. She would need me to process things
and come to her with decisions and having been able to talk to her about how I feel
and I just couldn't do that because I wasn't able to process it. Because I needed so much
fucking time and space. It feels so much more... it feels like I have so little of that time
and space when I'm working, studying. Work and study both take up that time and space
so it feels like it's really hard to do that. And then the other things I want to do, the
things I'm interested in or passionate about or seeing my friends, all those sort of things,
they take up mental space as well and pull me away from it. It's like I need dedicated
time just to do that. It's like processing my feelings becomes... seems to be this just
like almost a job in itself. It takes up a whole bunch of time. I can't really be doing
other things while I'm doing it. It's really hard. It's really fucking hard to have a life
and do these things and I want to be able to do these things. But it's so hard to do
that and also live any kind of... much of a life. I wasn't doing any of this when I
was working full time at all basically. I was just trying to get through life. Working full
time I don't feel like I have the capacity for this. And that's a problem. That's a big
fucking problem. And that's why I feel so trapped at the moment, trapped... part of why
I feel so trapped at the moment, trapped at mum and dad's place, trapped between wanting
and needing money and feeling like I need to stay at mum and dad's place so I don't...
so I can do this processing and save money without having to get a full time job because
I don't feel like I can work... when I am working I don't feel like I can do much of anything.
I just... like I have no fucking mental capacity at all. Not at all but so... it's so drastically
reduced. It's crazy. And I really need to talk to therapists about this because this
is impacting me a lot actually. This fear of working full time and it's like eating
my life and wanting to grow through this needing process and feeling like I can't and that
I can't cope with life when I'm working full time and how trapped that makes me feel and
overwhelmed and hopeless.
