I really, really need to be able to find a way to do this while Mum and Dad are home.
I can't wait.
The incident Mum and Dad are gone and I've got the house to myself, I just open up and
I start being able to talk through all this and process all of it and I'm so shut down
the rest of the time.
I can't wait two weeks to have a day or two to do it.
It makes such a difference knowing that I have the space for myself.
I need to try and be able to find a way to do that when they're here, whether that means
going out to the backyard and doing it and asking them not to follow me or listen to
me or...
I need to make a space for it somewhere.
It's just hard because I know that talking about the stuff, it's going to drop my mood
and I'm going to be sad and I'm probably going to cry and I don't feel comfortable with that
around my parents.
They're not really all that good at...
I don't really want to have to deal with them asking me what's wrong or explaining anything.
I don't feel like they're not really all that good at offering comfort.
Mums can be pretty good listening and Dad does a little bit but I don't want to have
to deal with my heart emotions around them.
I don't feel comfortable with it.
I don't want to have to interact with them when I'm feeling like that and I don't want
to have to deal with their concern.
I just want to be able to feel those things and yeah, the talking is one thing.
It's okay.
I can go do that out the back.
I did it the other day sitting down there while I was hushed and quiet because now I
was out the back and people could probably hear me.
But it's the after effects.
When I'm feeling really blah, I don't want to have to interact with Dad walking past
every two seconds and asking me inane questions or trying to engage me in just nonsense.
I love him but I'm getting fucking tired.
I know he's just trying to connect I think but he's driving me a bit nuts and I don't
want to have to deal with that.
I don't want to interact with that when I'm...
Yeah, this is something I have to talk to my therapist about I think.
This exact mess, this thing that I'm talking about, I should probably just play this for
her to be honest.
Yeah, I just...
I don't know.
It's hard because I don't really feel like I can do the processing and feeling and thinking
that I need to do when I'm working a lot or studying and working, working full time or
studying and working.
But I also don't really feel like I can so that's why I'm living here because it lets
me meet some of my financial goals without having to work full time, giving me some of
the time, some more time to...
Giving me more time to work on some of those things, do that processing.
But then I'm not really doing the processing because I don't feel comfortable doing it
here with my parents around.
So then I feel like I should move out or move to Melbourne etc etc.
But then I come back to...
But then I have to work more and I can't meet my financial goals.
I'm caught in this place where...
Like I don't have the qualifications yet or the knowledge or the training to do the kind
of thing that I really want to do.
I still have to do more study.
I probably at least have to finish my next...
For the second year of my honours.
But then I also...
So I can't...
What am I trying to say here?
If I want to meet my financial goals I have to either stay at my parents place.
I'm caught in between feeling like I need to stay at my parents place because I feel like
I can't keep up with the overwhelm of life when I'm working full time, particularly when
I'm also trying to process shit.
So I feel like I need to be able to live here so I have time to do that whilst also being
able to work less and still save money.
So I can still work towards those financial goals but while...
While doing some of these things I need to do, doing some of this processing and feeling
and thinking and growing and reading and all that kind of thing out of my chest.
But any job I do at the moment is not going to be what I really want to be doing because
I need to do more study to do that and doing more study takes me away from both of those
things.
It takes me away from processing time and it takes me away from making money.
It's always the problem with study.
What I was talking about previously of needing that space here, not having it to process,
that is largely because of Dad.
Mum still goes out in the garden a lot and is in her room doing her own thing.
Dad is the one who constantly wants to interact and who's here all the time.
The difference between how it used to be and what it is now is that Dad's retired.
Dad is here all the fucking time.
Both of them are here all the time but Mum at least gets...
I used to love it here because I had the house to myself and Mum would be out in the garden
all day and now Mum's still out in the garden to farrow milk and when she's not she's in
her room and Dad's kind of everywhere in the house and constantly wanting to interact and
coming and knocking on my door and he's I think the main reason I feel like I don't have that
space.
And I think this is really important to talk to Cathy about my therapist because this is...
She said we're going to have to face some of these things, some of these emotions, delve
into some of the hard stuff and I need to talk to her that I'm struggling to do that
living here because everything I'm talking about.
Yeah I feel this fucking wave.
I feel so much freer.
I feel relief when my parents and Mum and Dad go up the coast, go up to Grands.
I feel so much freer, so much more able to be comfortable in my space.
I feel lonely here at night because this is a very place, big dark place to be on your
own at night but it's a lovely place to be during the day and there's so much space for
me to be myself and to think.
I don't know.
I guess at the core of this, thinking about it I don't know if I would feel comfortable.
I probably would feel the same pretty much anywhere.
I kind of maybe feel like I need to be on my own to feel things, to be able to process
them, to be able to talk through them and be able to just feel what I'm feeling and
not have to worry about what other people are thinking or feeling or how they're going
to react to how I'm feeling.
I'll have to make them feel okay about how I'm feeling.
I just want to be able to fucking feel what I'm feeling and not have to think about it
any more than that.
Just look after myself and feel for myself.
What does that say about...
I probably grew up feeling like I had to look after other people's feelings at mum and actually
to be honest, dad.
But I feel ashamed of feeling like this too because as soon as I said that I thought fuck,
are the cameras on?
Can they hear me?
Oh boy.
Yeah, I don't know if I...
I'm not sure I felt...
Was I able...
Did I feel like I could process things and feel things when I was living with Jayden?
Did I feel like that when I was living with Holly?
Maybe I feel like I need to be on my own to be able to feel some of those things.
I really don't know, man.
And also, I was thinking about it, I really need to not rush into...
It's pretty clear that the Masters in Scotland, as much as I do really want to do it, it is
actually something I want to do.
More study overseas is not what I need right now.
$25,000 debt is not what I need right now and I was reaching for something.
It's still probably something I would want to do at some point and it's like, it is still
almost perfect other than the money.
But I'm not in the position to do it right now and I was reaching for something.
I was reaching for something to work towards, to hope for, for some direction, for some
path forward.
I need to learn how to embrace where I am which is fucking uncomfortable because I'm
not really enjoying where I am.
That's the point of being where I am.
Despite the fact that I'm constantly searching for alternatives like wanting to move down
to Melbourne to be with Holly or maybe I can move out on my own because I'm sick of my
parents.
Oh but wait, then I can't make money, maybe I can work full time?
No, I just quit doing that for a fucking good reason.
I feel so fucking stuck.
It's hard because I have this intent, like...
Part of why I feel stuck is because I have all of these competing desires and urges and
things like I feel like I need to be doing.
This is probably the most important thing I can do.
This and kind of getting a three day a week job.
Those are the two most important things I can do.
But really, this is why I quit my job.
This is why I'm not in Melbourne doing this, exactly what I'm doing.
Processing these things, learning, growing, learning about myself and learning to sit
with myself and learning to be with the discomfort and understand myself.
This is the most important thing.
I have 80, something like 70 journals on here, recordings that I've made and I haven't listened
to any of them.
I was thinking, you know, spending all this time, this thought about getting transcription
apps and transcribing all this stuff and then like sorting through it all and like processing
and synthesizing all of my thoughts and feelings and bringing it all together but I don't do
any of that.
And a large part of that is because of that struggle.
Other competing things like filling my time with fun things, which honestly I'm kind of
feeling a bit hollow and shallow.
Because this is this and maybe philosophy and other things I feel like I really should
and want and need to be doing.
But I don't feel like I can just sit and rest and be and do those things.
But competing desires of wanting to make money and wanting to be with Holly and just wanting
to have sex with people and it's all a fucking muddle.
And thinking about it, I spend so much of my time repressing myself and worrying about
what am I trying to say.
I'm constantly thinking about, I take mum and dad into and having to answer their questions
and them know about what I'm doing into consideration so much.
Like you know, thinking about coming and seeing a prostitute.
I have to play in ways I can do that without raising mum and dad's suspicion.
I shouldn't have to fucking do that.
I'm 32 years old.
I'm not a fucking child.
But I feel like one here.
And yet how can I say I'm not a child when maybe I've internalized this idea that the
mark of adulthood is working and being able to look after yourself.
I feel incapable of doing that and it tears me to pieces and I feel so scared and so ashamed
of that.
I can't live up to this expectation I have of myself that I feel others have of me that
I feel society has of me.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
