I think I've been approaching or thinking about my relationship with Holly as like a
task, you know, as a goal where it's about, not even a relationship with Holly, just relationships,
intimate relationships, as you know, the goal, even though I never really thought I thought
like this, I think maybe I was feeling like, well actually I don't know, I don't know if
this is always the case, but it has been part of my trepidation lately, that it's like,
well if we know we're not going to work, why are we getting back together? Because we know
we'll break up again eventually. And it's like, does that mean a relationship is only
successful? Does that mean a relationship can only be successful? Can relationships
succeed or fail? And is a relationship only successful when you find the one, the person
that you spend the rest of your life with? Is that what relationships even about? Kind
of just be that you're growing with someone and you're spending time with someone. What
am I running away from? What am I trying not to do? The opportunity to be with other people?
What am I giving up? The opportunity to be with other people? And the impact on me and
my mental health, which it was doing that. But, yeah, I don't know. Maybe that's something
I need to learn to grow through. And if we do try again, that doesn't mean there's no
point if it's not going to work. Like if we know it's not going to work. It seems likely
that we'll break up again. I was just thinking about, well, maybe it was just a hard year
and that's why we broke up and maybe we'll have another three good years and then what
happens if we have another bad year and we break up? Well, you know, was that three years
wasted? Not really. But there is a part of me that feels like maybe it is because that's
time I could be spending getting out there and fucking people and, well, meeting other
people and growing in other ways. Who make me grow in other ways. But the thing is, Holly
still has ways to make me grow. There is still growth in our relationship. There's actually
a lot of growth in that relationship. It's just that growth is hard and takes time. There's
so much growth to go through together. Our growth kind of took us in different directions,
but how much is that really the case? How much of that was me running away from the
pain and distress? I think a lot of it and a lot of my saying no, the reason I broke up
and a lot of my saying no is exhaustion and overwhelm and running away from the pain and
fear and feeling the bad feelings and the distress. Yeah.
[End of Audio]
