I've just had a short text exchange with Holly where she asked if I was available for a chat
and then I said no, sorry I can't, I'm at work at the moment.
And then a little bit later she texted and said, "Do you want to talk later or are you
still feeling like you'd rather hold off until we see each other?"
And I took a little bit to think about what I wanted to say and I said, I was up front
and said, "Look, I think I'm feeling a bit uncomfortable with having casual chats at
the moment because I think there's some big things that we need to talk about and I'm
feeling uncomfortable having these casual chats until we have those big conversations
basically.
So yes, I kind of would like to maybe hold off."
And then she said, "That's understandable, I can respect that.
I'll hold off until we see each other."
Yeah, maybe it sounds like you're wanting to have some of those big conversations and
then decide whether casual contact is for you at the moment.
And I said, "Thank you for listening and understanding.
It makes me feel very heard and validated.
Does that work for you?
And if not, if there's something else you need, please let me know and maybe we can
come to, there's a compromise we can come to."
I think that was, I feel anxious about, I'm noticing that I feel anxious because she,
I sent the, "Does that work for you?" and then that's one text and then another text
being like, "It's okay.
Let me know if you need something else."
Those two texts were separate texts and I sent a little bit after, the second one a
little bit after the other and she had read the first one.
Does that work for you?
And hasn't read, or hadn't, at this point hasn't read the, "Does this work for the,
please let me know if you need something else and we can maybe come to a compromise."
I'm feeling anxious about that.
I'm feeling anxious that she saw the first message.
Does that work for you?
Got hurt and frustrated with, you know, being like, "Well, obviously not Michael.
I want to talk to you."
What, she's feeling like now she has done like, because she said she's going to leave
me be, she's just going to completely leave me be kind of thing.
So that's a pattern that happens a lot.
I get anxious about having said the wrong thing.
This is definitely something I need to talk to my therapist about.
It's a big one actually and that played out a lot in our relationship.
But the bigger thing I was getting to here was that, that's something I didn't, that
way of doing things isn't, and I still kind of beat around the bush a little bit and she
had to ask, she had to prompt it out of me.
I didn't just, I wasn't just upfront.
You know, I, when she messaged earlier, I had a legitimate reason.
I was at work, but I also didn't really want to talk all that much.
And I've always found it very hard to tell her when I do and don't feel okay to talk.
I think a lot of the time I just don't, generally don't feel okay to talk.
I often just don't want to, I often find that I don't want to do it.
And I don't ever really just come out.
I don't ever, I'm never upfront about it.
I always like either just kind of grin and bear and talk to her through it.
I don't talk about how I'm feeling about it.
Or if I do eventually I do it in like a weird way, you're like, yeah.
So I think that kind of upfrontness that we had there, she did prompt it out of me, but
I was very quick to respond with upfrontness was good.
I think it's something if we do end up getting in, like even if we're just don't end up
getting back together, but just stay in contact, that's important.
It's important.
She needs it, but I think it's also, it's healthy for any kind of relationship we have.
And it's a healthy thing for me to learn too.
It's a good thing to be modeled for me.
She is actually kind of modeling it for me and it gives me an arena in which to practice
that really important skill.
I think standing up for what I need and asking for what I need and communicating about it,
but at the same time also saying, hey, not just saying I need this to happen, being more
like this is what I feel like I maybe need.
Can you please tell me what you need, what you feel that you need so that we can, that
maybe there's something we can, somewhere in between that we can come to.
Okay.
Massive body pile up here.
Shit.
And now my thoughts are circling around.
I'll go back to the anxiety thing.
My thoughts are constantly like, I'm constantly wanting to check the phone to see if she's
read the message or responded.
Getting quite anxious.
I'm not, I don't feel super anxious about it.
It's just, it's drawing my attention a lot.
That's saying I need to learn how to deal with the result.
But yeah, this, I don't ever want to just, let's go around.
I don't ever want to just be like, this is what I need.
I need this from you.
I think it's important to be like, this is what I need.
What do you need?
Is there a compromise we can reach?
She's very good at listening to what I need generally when she's not triggered or whatever
the word is, not dysregulated.
And I feel like I maybe need to, should be a little bit, I could be a little bit better
at listening to what she needs and trying to make space for that and in those conversations.
I think I often don't know how to do that or just kind of get caught up in my own needs
and don't express, hey, what are your needs?
Talk to me about them.
So that's an important thing to do.
But being upfront about, hey, look, I just, you know, if she messages, hey, how's it going?
I can respond and say, yep, I'm going great.
Hey, Holly, sorry, I'm actually not really, I'm sorry, this makes you feel rejected.
I'm not really feeling like talking at the moment.
And then at some point probably talk to her and say, look, I find that often I actually
kind of just don't want to talk that much.
I don't know, it's weird.
I'm trying to unravel it.
And I think part of it is definitely with texting, and this is something I want to talk to both
my therapist and Holly about is I feel a lot of pressure around texting.
I feel a lot of pressure around messages and texting with everybody and calling and stuff,
but particularly with Holly, like a huge amount with Holly.
I feel like, you know, as soon as I get a text from her, I feel like I need to respond
to it like immediately.
I just feel this heavy weight, this pressure coming down on me the whole time that I'm
thinking about it.
And I think part of that is, a little bit of that is the way Holly has reacted to things
in the past.
I think a larger part of it is mum and her fucking texting habits and her like checking
up on me and not fucking, and like messaging and calling all of my friends if I don't fucking
immediately get back to her.
I think that's a much larger part of where that's come from.
So I think that's probably part of why I just like kind of don't really, I really
struggle with, especially when it's like the other person initiating.
If I initiate it's not as bad, although then I often feel guilty if I don't immediately
respond to.
So I just, I feel I have a lot of hangups around contacting, contact with people.
It's not a super easy thing for me.
Probably a lot of work to do there, I'm not really sure where to begin.
Talking to the therapist is definitely part of it.
But yeah, I need to learn to be up front with her about these things.
Because I used to just get, combined with my anxiety about contact I also would just
get really upset about doing the wrong thing or hurting Holly, which would stop me from
doing things and talking to her about things and asking for what I need, which would then
just make me resentful.
So I need to learn how to, which I'm getting there and I need more help to do it, I need
to learn how to ask for, just talk to her about how I'm feeling and what I need.
And say look, I know this is probably, this is maybe something that doesn't work for you
and it's something that we have struggled with in the past and I have been scared to talk
to you about it in the past because I've been very afraid to hurt you because I know it's
probably something that's going to make you feel rejected.
But I'm trying to talk about how I feel and what I need and I don't quite know what I
need but what I do know that I, I'm not entirely sure what I need just yet in regards to this
but I do know that I struggle with contact.
Yeah.
And something I don't understand is, you know, I get feelings of frustration around talking,
I get feelings of anxiety around responding, I'm trying to, there's more I need to understand
about it and there's a lot of work that needs to go into that.
And you know, that's a lot, that's quite a lot, I think, was a pretty, actually a pretty
big, pretty decently large part of some of our problems I think, was that interaction
between that part of me and your side of things where you feel rejected by things.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
