Continuing on from what I, the message I did last night, where I said that it feels like
my whole life is kind of on hold until I make a decision about whether I want to, whether
to get back together with Holly or reconnect with Holly, that's very much the case.
I just, I feel trapped in this limbo and everything I do feels kind of pointless and everything
I do feels, there's so much of me that just wants to, it almost feels like an inevitable
conclusion that I'm going to want to get back together with her.
Just, I have doubts and fears, basically I think what the case is, is I want to, so much
of me wants to, I want to with so much of myself.
I want to try again, but at the same time I have doubts, I'm afraid and I feel like
there's some things I need to know or understand better first, there's some work on myself
I need to do first.
And I don't feel like I'm in a position to actually do it yet.
I feel like I need to save a bit of money, I need to do what I'm doing currently first.
I need to stay here for a while, work on myself, save some money, I've got myself into a good
position, I need to utilise that position, give myself the time to work on myself, do
all those things.
But at the same time I'm fine, I can't move on, I can't make plans for the future because
at the moment I can't think of the future, I can't move forward, I'm just kind of like
where I am right now doing what I'm doing right now.
I can't decide, I don't know if I'm going to move to Melbourne but so much of me wants
to and I can't decide, I feel like I can't get a gel blaster for example and get into
that hobby because I'm not going to be able to use it when I get down to Melbourne.
Even though I don't know if I'm going down to Melbourne it seems like such a big possibility
and there's so much of me that wants to do that that I can't do that.
I also can't really countenance, I can't really face the idea or I'm kind of, part of me wants
to but a lot more of me doesn't want to be with somebody else or try dating or anything
like that because I feel like I'd be letting Holly down and in a lot of ways what I want
is Holly.
Now I feel like I don't want to go to Scotland, like to the UK because I want to do that with
Holly.
I feel like to be, it's part of me that feels like to be with Holly, I need to get past
the stage of still trying to work out what I'm doing with myself and I get, when I'm
not making a decent amount of money, particularly when I'm studying, when I'm living out of
home and not making a huge amount of money, particularly when I'm studying, I just fall
to fucking pieces, I get so fucking stressed.
Being financially unstable makes me really fucking stressed.
I just get so stressed and overwhelmed and trying to navigate that while navigating difficulties
of our relationship while trying to study is just, it's too much for me but at the same
time I'm not content to just do what I'm doing for that long, like I want to get into, I
want to move on into something, I want to do something that matters to me and it just
seems like there's always more fucking study to do before I can get there.
I just don't know how to navigate all of those things together, I feel like I don't want
to put my life on hold to study, to get somewhere but I just don't, at the same time I'm so
afraid of what last year took out of me.
But life feels kind of pointless without Holly.
It's not that I don't buy into the idea of soulmates, I love Holly and I think she will
be one of the great loves of my life, if not the love of my life.
I can't tell what the future holds but even if we don't end up getting back together she
will be one of the greatest loves of my life.
She probably always will be and I will always, always regret that we couldn't make it work
if we don't end up getting back together.
I will always remember her and there's so much of me that wants to hold onto that and
not let her go and I'm worried that maybe that's what needs to happen and all this that
I'm feeling is just me being unwilling to let go.
I can't, like how am I supposed to, I'm never going to be certain but how can I be, how
can I go back to her unless I'm a bit more sure but it's just not fair to either of us.
I just don't know how to get that surety.
I don't want to hurt her but I'm also terrified of losing her, like giving up, you know, if
I don't act soon she's going to move on because that's pretty much what she's trying to do,
like you know she can't keep waiting for me forever, she needs to try and get on with
her life which is why she said those things the way she, you know, what she said and that
is completely unfair, she should, she shouldn't wait around for me but I'm terrified that
if I don't act soon I will lose her, that she will move on.
But then I'm also terrified that if I get back together the same thing's going to happen
again and I think a lot of what was happening, it was a definite interaction but so much
of what I was feeling was because of me, you know, I was ashamed of her in some ways, I
was embarrassed by her in some ways and that says a lot about me, it says more about me
than it does about her, I was triggered and overwhelmed constantly in our relationships
and just constantly felt ashamed, that says so much about me and it's such a huge amount
of work to do to get through all of that. I just keep coming back to the same thing,
I need to just keep doing what I'm doing right now, try to do this work, work three days
a week, save some money and give myself the time to work on myself and that's really the
most important thing to work on myself. But it just feels like everything I do at the
moment is, it just feels like I'm waiting, like my whole life is just waiting, just treading
water, it just feels pointless, everything just kind of feels pointless at the moment.
When I'm hanging out with my friends it doesn't, I can get into that but outside of that everything
I do just feels, I know I'm where I'm, I need to be doing what I need to be doing but
I'm getting no enjoyment out of it, I'm not enjoying life, I feel no peace, everything
just feels blah and pointless and like I just want to be with Holly. But I can't, ah this
is so hard, so much of me just wants to run back to her, just you know, it feels almost
inevitable that I'm so much of, I feel almost sure, almost certain that what I want is to
be with her. But I also know that that's probably, part of that is just me being emotional and
missing her and wanting her and part of that is me being, wanting to get away from the
feelings I have at the moment, you know where I'm stuck in this limbo and part of that is
because I'm trying to work on myself and decide what I, and learn more about what happened
and what I need. And I'm just not enjoying it and like that process doesn't feel good
so I want to just, I'm like well if I'm, if I'm, you know, it's a big part of me that's
like if I'm sure, pretty all but sure that I want to be with Holly. Mum just turned up
out of nowhere so I kind of stopped doing this for a bit but I had a little bit, kind
of forgot a little bit about what I was talking about but I think it was, I can't quite remember
right now, yeah that's right, there's a big part of me that feels like if I'm certain,
if I'm all but sure that I do want to, you know there's so much of me that feels like
it's almost inevitable that I want to get back together, like it's almost inevitability
that we're going to get back together or that I want, that I'm going to want to get back
together because of how I feel at the moment and the thoughts I've been having and various
signs interpreting my own feelings that what I want is for us to get back together. And
it just feels like well, if that's the case. And Holly said get back in contact, you know,
when you change your mind, if you change your mind about wanting to be in contact just get
back in contact with me. There's so much of me that just wants to email and say I've changed
my mind, let's be in contact, I can't be without you anymore. I don't know man, fuck me. She's
really seemed to think we'd be able to make it work. There's more we should try and I
want to believe that. There's so much of me that wants to believe that and I've been holding
off being like no, we need to do the work. But then I also don't feel like I'm in a position
to actually, like I'm not in a position, I don't feel ready to just go down there and
be with her. I feel like I still need to be here. There's a lot of me that wants to do
what I'm doing, get back in contact with her, do a long distance relationship and continue
doing what I'm doing. Maybe that will make life better and I can start to move forward
in that. And that I'm working towards going down to be with Holly. I don't know, I don't
know man. This is all so fucking hard. And as hard as last year was I think part of why
I'm feeling the way I am at the moment is that as hard as last year was, it felt like I was
really tasting adult life for the first time. Like how I felt about Mum and Dad and living
here had changed. I didn't really feel like I wanted to be here anymore. I wanted to kind
of move on with my life. And yet I'm back here again in the same position I always end
up back in, back at my parents place. Bleaching off at them, not bleaching but staying here,
trying to conserve resources. And I just, I wanted to not have to do this. I said when
I moved out I don't ever want to move back in. We moved back in so that we could get
to Melbourne. There was a point, there was a stepping stone and it is still a stepping
stone, it's just a very fucking long step, lasting step. I don't actually really want
to be here. I think what I want is to be in Melbourne with Holly. I want things to have
worked out. That was the next big step in our lives together. It was a big step forwards
in my life. And I'm fucking back here again, always back here, paddling along just trying
to fucking stay afloat. You know what, we had a life together. And in a lot of ways
it was really lovely and it felt like life was overwhelming and painful but it felt like
life, this just feels like treading water. And I love my parents but I'm fucking tired
of living by their rules, living the way, being around the way they love them. I'm sick
of being around them all the time. I'm sick of being here all the time. I'm sick of being
in Brisbane, I'm sick of being in Albany Creek. I'm getting, building good relationships,
I'm loving my relationships with my friends at the moment. I don't really want to give
that up but that's, other than that and the desperate desire to save money while working
on myself, that's the only reason I'm here. It wasn't for either of those things I would
be fucking gone in a heartbeat. I'm tired of being here. It's lovely but I just don't
feel the peace and the joy I used to here anymore. It feels almost like a prison, a
necessary prison. I love my parents but my relationship was better with them when I wasn't
here. I was starting to get close to them and as soon as I've come back it just feels
like that's gone off the deep end. I just don't want to be around them, I'm tired of
talking to them, I'm tired of every time they come into my room. It just feels like
yet again my life is on hold. I'm so tired of that. I don't know what to do about it.
I'm tired of doing things with my life that feel meaningless and that's difficult because
from everything I've learnt, that's a two-way, that's an interaction. That sense of meaninglessness
is an interaction between myself and the world. I can't just change my mind. I can't
just be like "Well, actually things are meaningful. That's not how it works." But it is also in
some ways dependent on me. It's dependent on both me and the world. It's dependent on
my attitude and the attention I pay to things and the attitude I have and the feelings and
thoughts I have towards the world. But the way the world is also the way it is, which
influences the way I feel about it. A lot of the jobs I do are fucking pointless. I want
to do something with my life. I don't even know if I care if it's a job. I do feel like
if I'm going to do something every fucking day for five days every week for the most
of the rest of my life, I can't bear the thought of doing that unless it's something that is
more meaningful and matters and improves the world. I don't know, maybe Ben and Ryan have
the right idea to get into something that just lets you make a shitload of money and
then take time off and use that time to do important things. But then I don't know how
to do those important things. I could be doing those right now. I could be working on philosophy.
I could be writing a blog. I just don't know how to even start. That's what I want to spend
my life. That's what I feel called to do. I don't mean that in a sense of like God is
calling me or anything. I just, that feels like, I don't know if I believe in purposes,
but that feels like my purpose. It feels like there is something in me and there's something
in the world that are drawn together. That's what I want to do. That's what I need to do.
That's what I'm supposed to do. I don't know. I don't really quite believe in any of those
things but it's still there. It's something beyond those. That's what I feel drawn to.
That's my passion. I don't quite know what form it takes or how to exactly go about doing
it but doing something that matters, that is significant, that I care about, that is
meaningful to the world and really deeply meaningful. The things that actually matter
and it's not fucking money. At the same time I feel like I spent so much of my life worrying
about money and trying to get into a point where I can make money and live comfortably.
I'm just torn between those things. I think that's because of my desire to do fire. Because
I want to do fire because I want to spend my life working. I want to do something that
matters but maybe I can, maybe that doesn't matter as much if I can find a job that lets
me do that. I don't know what that is. It seems unlikely given how fucking meaningless
everything that commercialisation touches is and commercialisation fucking worms its
way into everything. It just feels fucking hopeless sometimes. I think I'm avoiding philosophy
because of its association for me with Holly. It's not just that I'm a... it feels like
too big of a thing for me and it's too associated with Holly at the moment. It's part of me
and it feels like I can't really get into it until one I've gotten this... I've done
my 3D printing although that's just probably my obsessions. But until I've made a decision
about what I'm doing to do with Holly I kind of feel like I can't step into philosophy.
I don't know, it's weird. It's like a sense that that's the next big thing for me and
I can't step into it until I'm ready to and I'm not ready to until I make a decision about
Holly one way or the other. And it just constantly feels like the inevitable decision I'm going
to make is to be with Holly. I want to try at least one more time, yeah I want to try
one more time and if after that we can't make it work then that's a sign we can't make it
work.
Moving on to something else, I'm realising that now that I've gotten a job my absolute
number one priority is the thing I care about the most which is nice. It's hard to do so
I can't expect myself to do it all the time but it's the thing I care about the most,
it's the thing I'm prioritising the most is doing the work, processing my emotions, my
feelings, my thoughts, learning about myself, learning about what happened, why I felt the
way I did and basically kind of moving towards working out what happened, what I want to
do next with Holly when it comes to Holly. Understanding myself, understanding my feeling,
understanding why things happened they did as they did, learning about myself, learning
to cope with things, learning skills, understanding all of these things, doing the work, doing
the emotional work, that's the thing I care about the most, that's why I'm here and I
quit my job, I quit EGAS to, I quit that job in order to spend time, I was really interested
in, at the time I told myself it was to learn, at the time I was really really interested
in doing that philosophy class, starting to prepare myself for next year for going and
doing that masters in UK, all those sorts of things, learning some research assistant
skills, some skills I would need to get a research assistant job, learning Excel better,
all of those things I wanted to pick up skills and improve my ability to move forward into
a career and I do still care about those things but much less so than this, I didn't really
end up doing them all that much and now I don't care, now I'm not going to do those
things, I'll maybe pick away at them a little bit but I would much rather, now that I've
got a job and I'm in a position where I can stay somewhere for a bit, work enough that
I can enjoy, do some things I enjoy and still save money and still have time, I want to
use that time to do this work, that's the thing that matters, part of me worries about
if I don't do those, learn those skills then it means I'm going to have to try and learn
them later when I'm not in a good position but it's a, that's the cost of doing this
work and this work is the more important thing, I can work whatever job, really, I don't want
to but this is the stuff that actually matters, this is the work that I need to do, this is
what's worth, this is why I'm living here working three days a week to give myself the
time to do that work and I don't need to do it, I don't need to be, I don't need to like
harangue myself to do it constantly, I don't need to come down on myself like a sack of
bricks, I don't need to feel bad if I don't do it in like a day but I would like to focus
on, I would like to try and do it maybe a little, for an hour every morning, read through
that book, etc etc and that's what I need to be doing, that's the focus, that's what
I'm trying to do here, that's the purpose, that's the goal of being here, everything
else is secondary, I've gotten the job which means I can now start to save money, that
was the biggest thing, to not fucking blow my savings and start building them again,
that's sorted, that's sorted now, I don't have to worry about that, this is the next
big thing and then if I do get through that, I think it probably won't by the time I leave,
I will make a bunch of progress but I don't think I'll be done, I don't think I'll ever
be done but maybe if I somehow get enough, I learn enough about myself that I can learn
enough skills and process things enough that I can move on a little bit, then the next
important thing, the next and most important thing is to learn some of those other skills,
research assistant skills, Excel, philosophy, all of that, but this is more important right
now and that's okay, that's what this time is for, that's the moment I'm in, it's the
opportunity I have finally, let's be honest, finally for the first time in my life, I really
have that opportunity and I know you want to run off and be with Holly but you need
to do this first and that's what this time is for, it's the, you have the goal and the
best opportunity you've ever had in your life to do this.
So what, you know, you need to maybe think about and talk to your therapist about what
does that look like, how do I structure my, how do I, what do I want to do, what do I
have to do to do that, how do I want to structure my time to do it, when do I want to do it,
how much do I want to do it, what does it look like, because that's the most important
thing, everything else can come afterwards, nothing else is as important, even if you
don't end up being with Holly, if you don't want to be with Holly, this growth that you
need to do is the most important thing.
You've never had an opportunity like this to do it and you might not again, so take
advantage of it.
I know it feels bad, but you can do it.
Yeah, okay.
