I'm not quite sure why, but for some reason I'm in a really fucking bad mood today.
I'm really glad that I'm about to go see my therapist.
I think part of it is I've been feeling very
more and more like I want to move down to Melbourne and be with Holly.
Like what I've been feeling more and more like what I want is to be with Holly basically.
I've been thinking about that a lot. I've almost been like starting to hope for,
to look towards that and think about getting out of, you know, only staying in
at mum and dad's place in Brisbane for as long as it takes me to
get some things done or save a certain amount of money.
And, you know, not certainty, but I've been building some more of a...
A lot of this year felt quite lost and like I'm floundering around and that was starting to feel
like, you know, not certainty, but more strongly realising what I want and being able to start
thinking about that and moving towards it. Having something to move towards, I think, but also
maybe knowing, thinking I know that what I actually do want, that being with Holly is what I do want.
I've been dreaming about Holly a lot. I've been thinking about Holly a lot.
And...
I'm just fucking tired as well. I'm just exhausted, like mentally, physically,
spiritually. I'm just fucking exhausted, but I'll get back to that at some point.
And then today, after all that growing, not certain... I don't know what to say. There's
a word I'm looking for that isn't certainty, but stronger feeling, I guess, or stronger belief,
or more closer towards certainty. After feeling that grow over the last week or two or three,
I think maybe yesterday, but definitely today,
I've just been thinking more and more about the ways
in which her way of talking about things and her... It's sometimes felt like she didn't leave
space in conversation for other people's thoughts or opinions, not always, but in the things that
she was... Things like feminism and stuff that she was really passionate about. It didn't feel like
there was space for anybody else. She could be very opinionated kind of thing. And
between that and her... I'm going to pause it so the camera... between that and
I don't know, her opinion or her attitude towards men in some ways, and just her...
Some of her conversation we had about white people and Western civilisation and Western
culture and how it's uniquely racist. Just some of the things she says and some of the
some of the things she says I just really struggle to agree with. But I think more
than that, it's the way she says them. It's the... She just seems to have this iconic-lastic, bombastic,
fiery certainty. And it just feels like, if you disagree with me,
she feels like if you disagree with me, you're wrong. Or she gets frustrated or angry or I don't
know. I don't know what it is, but it's just... Her level of certainty about things frustrates me.
And her attitude, her biases towards men frustrate me.
And I think that degree of... that attitude of sometimes it feeling like, "I'm right, you're wrong."
And there not being space for other people's thoughts and opinions. Which is, I think,
a bit of a maybe an emotional overreaction on my part. Like, I'm not sure that's necessarily
what she's doing, but I feel like that's how she feels sometimes. It's how I feel in our
conversations. Like, there's no space for me. Like, I can't say anything. Just that level of
ability to question things. And that lack of skepticism and that like, so sure of our own
position and opinion, and you're willing to kind of interject it over other people and tell people,
"No, you're wrong." It's something I really struggle with. I struggle with it with all
sorts of... I struggle with Jono a bit too. He does this similar... that like, willingness to jump
to conclusions or to jump to certainty is... and in some ways, an unwillingness to listen
is something I really struggle with in people. But I feel like sometimes it's present in Oli,
and it's bordering on a deal breaker. It borders on a deal breaker for me, basically.
Because that's like the complete opposite of my value, of what I value.
And I get it, you know, she has come from a... she spent her life being told to shut up, basically,
by people. So it's really hard to find that balance, and I understand that, and I respect that,
and she needs to do what she needs to do. She needs to try to strive to... she is trying to
be somebody who can make her opinions more known in the face of disregard, or I don't know.
But at the same time, it's just... you know, it's not all or nothing. Like,
in a lot of ways, I think she's better than Jono, because, you know, she does also have a really good...
often sometimes does have a really good capacity to listen, and to take responsibility, and to make
space. Not always in the moment, particularly not in heated conversations, but you know, nobody
really can, really, but I feel like she can be particularly opinionated.
But after... later, at a later point, she often feels like she
can make space for things. It can be quite good at that, you know, she often did make me feel,
later on, often did make me feel quite heard. And she values that. That's a heavy... I think that is
her big value of hers making other... giving space to other people, and you know, giving... letting
other people, you know, listening to them. That kind of thing. I think that is something she values.
Which, no, that's something I value about her. It's something I love and respect about her.
It's just... in a lot of our conversations... a lot of the more, I guess, philosophical or
discussiony sort of things, I felt uncomfortable a lot, and it often felt like Holly wasn't giving
me space, you know, in those discussions. I think maybe I kind of took some of that on as well, and I
kind of would like get defensive, or like jump to saying, "well, I don't know if I agree" kind of thing.
Yeah, and that's something I've been thinking about that a lot lately, because I've been thinking
more about feminism and, you know, I don't know, whatever, this ideology of philosophy or whatever,
of diversity, equity, inclusion, you know, this woke-ism, which is a bad word. It's just, I don't know,
there is a cluster of things that kind of like cohere together, you know, and people tend to,
if they do one of them, they tend to be, you know, left-leaning liberal feminism, trans rights,
Black Lives Matter, all that kind of stuff. And I've been, you know, particularly gender,
fucking hell mate, particularly gender stuff and trans stuff, I have been looking more into,
and I have been getting a bit more interested in, I'm getting more interested in, I think I'm getting
more interested in the philosophy of gender, because it's really actually quite philosophically
like fraught and complex and very open to interpretation and like there's a lot of depth
there. It's a very philosophically deep topic that's also like highly important kind of thing.
And there's been a lot of work done on it. You know, I was listening to Judith Butler's
theory of, I think it's like performative theory of gender, which was interesting.
And I was listening to it, listening to a philosophy tube,
gonna pause it, yeah, listening to a few philosophy tube things on trans issues and,
well I very much, there's a lot I disagreed and felt put off by in the philosophy tube,
trans thing. But yeah, what is a woman and gender and social roles and all that kind of stuff,
particularly the episode on, I think it was, is gender a social construct?
Or is sex a sexual construct or something like that?
Yeah, all that stuff. And I think some of this has been prompted by
the frustration I've been feeling about, towards people,
a lot of people I know, mostly, particularly a lot of men I know, being
this opinion or this attitude they have towards gender and women and feminism.
It's just, you know, other people who are otherwise quite intelligent and reasonable people
just seem to, like Jayden for example, he seems to be becoming increasingly
like Jordan Petersonised or something, like he's talking more and more like, and he's just,
just the level of disregard I think for gender and gender issues and
lack of consideration for whether these are, any of these problems,
you know, and then, you know, Jayden's saying I don't agree that women are
not, he thinks women are more privileged in Australia, like, I don't know, it's just,
it's this lack of, I get the, I understand personally, from personal experience I understand
the like, the desire, the feeling of being misunderstood by feminism and
feeling of being maligned and all this sort of stuff, I understand that, but
just the lack of regard, the lack of sympathy, the lack of empathy, the lack of thought, the lack of
um, just writing it off, like, not, you know, lack of listening completely, complete lack of listening,
among so many people I know, particularly men, mostly men, actually I think entirely men,
it's just, it frustrates me, so both sides, you know, and then wholly frustrated me coming
back the other way, so it's just, you know, I feel like I have been prompted and prodded into
thinking about things a little bit differently since knowing Holly and noticing my defensiveness,
which is valid, I think, I think she was in some ways overly, she was biased, she was in some ways
anti-men, she purged into misandry, um,
but,
um,
and I was, I was, you know, just tired of kind of having to think about it all, and I am tired,
still tired of having to think about it, but I do feel like I have to think about it a bit,
but now I'm tired of the other side of things as well, like after talking to so many of my friends,
it's like I can't have a fucking conversation with any of them, like a reasonable conversation with
anybody about any of this shit, it's just fucking tiring, um, so now I'm, you know, and, and gender,
I, I, for a bit I have been a little bit interested in gender, but, but it's, well, no, that's not
true, I wasn't really, but after some of that stuff, and also kind of making the connection
between gender and the problem of categorisation, because I think gender is a very big and important
instance of the problem of categorisation, which is one of my, like, biggest interests, um,
yeah, it's just, something I'm becoming more interested in, something I, what the fuck is this guy doing?
Something I'm becoming more interested in, and maybe part of it is I feel like I need to be
more interested in, I feel like I need to look at it into it more, if I ever want to be with
Holly, kind of thing, which I think she, she has kind of made plain, and I don't know how I feel
about that, I don't know if I want to have to do certain things to be able to be with Holly,
want to have to think certain ways, like, yeah, I don't know, um, but regardless, I, I was thinking
about my struggles with those things with Holly this morning, a lot today, and it made me upset,
and it made me feel like, ah, maybe I'm not, maybe we're not so right for each other, maybe
there is more I have to think about when it comes to being with Holly, uh, I don't know,
and just frustrated with my dad, like, fucking really frustrated with dad,
frustrated with 3D printing, just frustrated, just, it feels like a bit of a day, like,
waking up on the wrong side of the bed, just frustrated with a lot of things, frustrated with
feeling stuck and, like, I'm treading water and, like, keep coming back to that same place of
being at my parents' place and not being able to get, move forward and always having to do more shit,
and just frustrated and stuck with the way the world is and not being able to deal with it,
not being able to deal with the full-time work and not having to, I'm not,
I'm hating having to do that and just everything, I'm so fucking tired,
I'm just fucking exhausted with all of this shit.
