I think I've realised as well why I struggle with a lot of other water of experience to
come in time for, but I'm really liking this book, and why I've liked quite a bunch of
other books I've read recently, some of the things I've gravitated towards, it's because
I think I'm at a point in my life where I can't really deal with the enormity of life
and the world. I spent the last few years trying to, becoming more concerned with the
world and trying to learn more about the world and trying to take part in the world and trying
to make a difference in the world, becoming more and more concerned with that and concerned
with the way the world is and wanting that to change and wanting to be able to contribute
to that change. And you're tired of people just complaining and wanting to do something
about it, and me wanting to do something about it, there's still part of me that feels those
things but I think I hit a part of my life where I can't, things have become a lot more
deeply personal, I'm trying to discover, I'm trying to delve into myself rather than delve
into the world, that understand the world and change the world. I'm trying to delve
into and understand myself rather than delve into and understand the world. So I'm much
more attracted, you know, people's, other people's anger about the way the world is,
is not what I can't deal with at the moment. That's not what I'm looking for, it's not
what I need right now, what I need is deeply personal reflection that resonates with me.
I don't want, I can't deal with and it's not helpful for me right now, you know, rage
about the way things, the ways things are, or the ways that things are broken, because
I already know things are broken and it's overwhelming and I can't deal with it anymore
right now. You know, I've, the hope has almost been crushed out of me. I feel so overwhelmed
by it all. That's why I've turned inwards, I think. I've definitely noticed a shift towards
being less concerned about the state of the world, less concerned about solving climate
change and all these things and more of a turn inwards. And the things I'm reading and
consuming and I'm interested and concerned about, that's part of why I'm so interested
in philosophy, because so much of it is internal as well. It's external, it's the world, but
it's also like therapeutic for myself. You know, that's why I'm not as interested anymore
in climate change stuff and, you know, the science of agriculture and microbiotics and
stuff like that. Or economics. I don't really care quite as much. I'm not as invested right
now in understanding the world, I'm more invested in understanding myself and my experience
of the world. And that means understanding other people's experiences of the world. And
that does mean, like, understanding other people's experiences in ways that I don't, but right
now I'm looking for things that resonate with me and with my own experience and I can't
deal with sulfurous anger anymore. Right, well not anymore, but right now. I've been
like that for a while, but that's why I think part of why I react the way I do to the hate
and anger. I feel smashed down and like I just can't deal with it anymore. I just need
to read about sadness and people's personal experiences and love and the reality of emotions
and relationships I guess. That's the stage I'm drawn to right now. Like that relation,
that um, what's it called? I'm drawn to, I'm drawn to, whereas previously I was drawn
to information and knowledge, economics, psychology, etc. Now I'm drawn to the emotional and the
personal. Books that resonate with me about the horror of my experience and which is why
the school of life resonates with me too. It's why this book resonates with me. It's
why parts of that breakup monologue, monologues, um, resonated with me. It's part of why. I
think it's maybe part of why I struggle with Holly's strident feminism. It's like I can't
deal with the world's problems right now. I need to deal with my own and that means a
turn inwards.
[slurp]
