I feel like I'm starting to hit a wall of being on, like a being on break wall.
I've kind of just been taking it easy, diving into hobbies, shit like that.
Not really being directed, just kind of jumping around from thing to thing, and kind of being
obsessed with one thing after another, and putting off the things that really matter,
I think.
And now I'm hitting up against that and everything I'm doing is feeling kind of pointless.
I think that's a sign that maybe I need to, I'm starting to not enjoy, it's like my brain
jumps from one, I was doing 3D printing and I was hyper obsessed with that and then got
a bit frustrated and then started reading some 40k novels and then did a lot of that
and then because of that jumped in, got interested in Imperial Maledictum and then bought that,
dove into that and then that kind of reinforced the 3D printing and I was just kind of hyper
obsessed with all of that.
But now I'm not really enjoying the 40k novels anymore.
I don't really feel like reading, I actually don't really feel like reading a novel at
all.
I started trying to do a few things with Imperial Maledictum while making my own game, neither
of those really jumped out at me.
The 3D printing, I want to get done but I don't want to go through it.
I just kind of am obsessively doing it because I want it to be finished basically.
And I sat down and started reading a non-fiction book, this relationship reset book that I
borrowed in, that already feels better.
I think tomorrow I really need to sit down and think about what I have been doing, what
I want to do, what I wanted to do and what I want to do going forwards and work out some
things because I haven't done anything I've really been doing what I wanted to do at this
time with this year.
I'm reading page 25 of this relationship reset book.
She says "The heading of this section is why do we perceive our partner as a threat?"
Go says "When we feel suddenly afraid, shocked or overwhelmed in an interaction with our
partner we will perceive them as a threat and our amygdala will kick off the fight or
flight response."
That's exactly what was happening, what happened when like Holly would get angry at me in the
car.
I think I maybe even perceived my guilt about her wanting to talk to me because of my guilt
about it as a threat.
I was triggered a lot in our relationship.
