So, it's now the second day, second full day post-Holly. I don't know if it's a good idea
to measure the time like that, but anyway. Man, significant things seem to happen in
October. Pretty sure Max died in October. Now, Holly and I ended things, or Holly ended
things with me in October. But yeah, anyway. I'm feeling okay today. It's a lovely morning.
As much as I hate to admit it, I feel good wearing my work clothes. And knowing that
I look good, even though I know that that's for other people. But, I bought these clothes.
These clothes have nothing to do with Holly. Bought them independently of Holly. I didn't
buy them for her or with her input. They've got nothing to do with her, and I chose well
and I look good. That's good to know. It does make me feel a little bit more confident in
myself, I guess. Which is what people talk about. Yeah. Why am I going so fucking slow?
Yeah, I thought I had in my head this morning as I was waking up and getting ready for work
was I don't have to live my life in reference to you. Well, that was slightly terrifying.
Yeah. I think I need to start doing this right now because it's distracting me from driving.
Probably going to have to be pretty intermittent with this. But yeah. I have been living my
life for Holly, towards Holly, in reference to Holly. She was kind of taking up my life.
In some ways I was trying to push back against that throughout our relationship. But also
that's kind of what a relationship is. They become so important to you. And she was enmeshed
in so much of my life, in my way that I thought about things, the decisions I made, how I
thought about the future. Even after we'd broken up, I was still holding onto all of
that. I hadn't let go of really any most of it. I was still holding onto us and I was
still holding, constantly holding onto the idea of us getting back together. Even when
I knew it probably wasn't the best idea and we weren't ready for it and may never be.
So yeah. This morning I'm, I mean it'll probably be gone tomorrow. Because even later today,
like it vacillates all over the place and then it'll hit me just how much I miss her
and how much she meant to me. And I'll have an image of a moment that was incredibly
meaningful but somehow now feels like it's gone even though it's not. Those moments are
still there and they still contributed to my life and they still changed me. She still
contributed to my life and changed me. Just because we're not together and never will
be doesn't mean those things stopped, didn't happen or stopped mattering. Just find that
bus in.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
