It's really good. One positive benefit of things being over with Holly is that it's
a really good feeling to finally feel like I can just engage in the things I'm interested
in, like read whatever I'm interested in, rather than feeling like I have to read stuff
about feminism and disability stuff. I'm not quite sure what that says. Is that saying
should I have cared more and been more interested in those things given that I was with Holly?
Or does it say that her expectations were too high or that she was too forceful in them?
Or did I internalise her expectations in a way that made them forceful for me? Or is
it all of those things? But regardless, not having to deal with Holly's expectations around
that anymore is really relieving. I didn't realise how much pressure I felt to succeed
or to do what she wanted me to do. Which is probably part of why I wasn't enjoying parts
of our relationship. I did feel an enormous pressure to conform to her expectations and
to meet her standards of feminism, allyship, knowledge, awareness, all that kind of stuff.
And it's not that I guess, as always, I always say it's not that I'm not interested in those
things. And actually I'm now more interested in those things than ever. Just to do with
this because I think they are worth understanding and knowing for my own sake, for better understanding
of the world and for the sake of all the women around me and for any woman I'm with they're
worth understanding. But gender and gender relationships and all that kind of stuff I
think is now becoming a topic of interest for me anyway. Partly I think because it's
so closely related to the problem of categories which is something I am incredibly interested
in. And I am reflecting at the moment on how much pain I was in, how uncomfortable I was
last year. Last year particularly but throughout the end of our relationship. Particularly
last year. But it was too much pain for me, it was too much pressure, it was too much
everything. And if we did want to maybe we could try again at some point but the reality
is it would take years of disconnection from each other and getting over each other and
moving on with our lives and growing properly and then trying again. Not what we were doing.
And honestly given what I've been realising about our values it's probably just not a
good idea. And I am feeling small parts of small, little bit at a time embracing and
kind of being excited about the idea of no longer being with Holly. And then obviously
see-sawing right back to being utterly fucking devastated and like my heart's been torn
out and my life's been almost ended and everything that felt important has felt fallen apart
which is part of the process. But there's little bits of me that are like oh feeling
a little bit of that excitement I felt around the idea of being with other people now that
I've not, that I've gotten past that first hurdle of being in a relationship and having
sex. It's still probably going to be difficult. It probably always will be a little bit difficult
for me but each time it's a little bit easier. Each new person is a little bit easier. Yeah,
so that's, I can feel that growing minute about my mouth at a time and eventually the day
will probably come when I don't feel very much of the pain around Holly. I will probably
always be a little bit sad and a little bit hurt about it and regretful that we couldn't
make it work but I think that will fade and fade and fade to the point where it's kind
of just a black max dying. When I give myself time to reflect it still makes me sad. Even
in the last year or two I've still occasionally cried about it. Not much and rarely but it's
part of the sad part of the sad tapestry of my life. The sad part of the tapestry of my
life and Holly will be the same. Probably maybe more so than Max. I don't know. Max's death
was pretty impactful and the feeling of excitement will grow I think in like, at the same time
as the feeling of pain ends. In the same, there's a word Jaden uses all the time but it's like
as the pain reduces the excitement will have room to grow I think. And I'm kind of looking
forward to that. And right now I'm kind of still heavily in the pain state. That's okay.
It's part of the process. It's one of the hard parts of human life. Sad and hard parts of
human life that I can simultaneously love someone so much and want them and miss them
and be so desperately sad and something and regretful that we couldn't make it work and
at the same time know pretty much, almost beyond a shadow of a doubt. Not quite that but I
think that is building with time. Know beyond with so strongly that I can't do the relationship
and it doesn't work because it was hurting me too much and it was hurting me too much
because of the ways we didn't work and my own problems and the ways they just interacted
with the problems in the relationship. And that's part of the sad reality of human life.
And I think we should be able to pause sometimes and reflect on that and accept that that's
part of what human life is. And that's part of what I love about Elaine de Boeten's work
in the School of Life's work. Accepting that life is sometimes, that part of human life
is just sad and hard and painful and we should be able to feel that and respect it and respect
it in each other. And our society should do a better job of enabling those things. Not
only should we have Valentine's Day, we should have Heartbreak Day. This is part of the problem
of the loss of rituals and traditions and where things become just kind of either, they
just fade away or they become just this commercialised bullshit instead. We should be able to have
a day for love and also a day for the loss of love and a day for mourning the dead. A
day in our lives every year where we can pause and take some time to just reflect and accept
that that's part of, it normalises those things and it makes space for those things in our
lives because they are going to happen. And our life as it is in this hyper capitalist,
hyper fucking individualistic destruction of everything that is meaningful and hyper
commercialised society, commercialised life, there's no space for any of those things.
Everything has to be for yourself and for money and about selling something or hyper
efficient or happy or positive or there's just no room for the, it's just not what human
life is like. And our society doesn't make space for that and there are parts of it that
they're used to. Those traditions are important. No matter what fucking Jaden says, it's really
fucking annoys the shit out of me when he does.
