So things are finally over with Holly. I don't really need to go into this too much because
I've already spent about three hours, two to three hours this morning writing about
this. But just for context, things are over with Holly. I went down to Melbourne to see
her and to make, for us to talk and see where we were both at and make a decision. And Holly
made the decision that she didn't want to try again. And based on that I made the decision
that I couldn't be friends and couldn't stay in contact with her and that we needed to
go our separate ways and move on with our life. And now I am realising that I went down
there hoping we'd get back together. And now I am grieving for the fact that I couldn't
leave everything that we had. However, what we had was gone. It was gone before this weekend.
I could feel it every time, the whole time I was down there, I was with her down there.
It wasn't the same anymore. We'd fallen too far, far past each other and we couldn't
reach each other anymore. There was too much hurt and let down and disappointment and pain
and sadness. And things just felt awkward and uncomfortable. But I'm grieving what we
had and I'm grieving the future I saw together and I'm grieving the future I was starting
to see again and how it feels like I'm breaking up all over again. Every flowering tree reminds
me of her. All of my books remind me of her. Everything. She was such, she was so much
a part of my life. I think my life for the last three years, almost four, has been about
her. She was intimately wrapped up in it. I'm so happy that I got to see her again.
And I don't, I didn't enjoy the time I had with her down there. I miss what, I miss her
as I knew her. I miss her as she knew me. I miss what we were. But that's gone. Even
before that decision was made, that was gone. And that was part of what I was so afraid,
part of what I was so scared about. The work that would be required to get back to somewhere
because we had fallen so far apart. And now it feels like my whole life is kind of over
a bit. I know that's not the case, but that's how my heart feels. Now I just don't know
what to do with myself. I don't know where to go next. The future I wanted and the future
I saw was with Holly, going to the UK. That's never going to happen. I'm never going to
speak to her again and I'm never going to see her again. That hurts so much. I'm so
sorry. She walked away on Sunday and that's the last time I will ever see her. I didn't
even watch her walk away. The last moment we had was a hug and a goodbye. I may never
say never. Who knows, maybe for five, ten years we'll run into each other. Maybe in
the future we'll run into each other or she'll be at a party that I'm at or one of us will
reach out to the other in five years' time somehow. But honestly, I don't think that's
going to happen. This is it. And it's the fact that we couldn't make it work, the fact
that I lost her. Before it was over I lost her. That hurts so much. I don't know what
I'm supposed to do now. I keep telling myself this is the start of a new chapter and it
is. But it feels like the end of the big one. The biggest, but the most important one. I
don't know where to go from here. Of course that's usually how it is. You have to go through
this to get to the other side. But it doesn't feel like there's another side right now.
It just feels like an ending. An awful, terrible ending. And everything is reminding me of
her again. All over again, right back. It's like I'm right back when we first broke up.
Oh well. At the very least there's closure now. I'm not sure what's going on. I'm not
sure what's going on. There's closure now. Well maybe not closure but there's no other
choice but to move on. There's nothing more to think about. There's nothing more to ponder
in question about whether to get back together. All there is is feeling and moving forward.
I don't have to try and make a choice. The choice is made. That felt really good and
freeing yesterday. Right now it doesn't. Same thing happened when we broke up. It felt really
good right after the break up and then it just kind of turned into blah and that blah lasted
for a long time. And I have this compunction, this feeling that I should avoid things that
remind me of Holly. I'm trying not to think about them but the fact is everything reminds
me of Holly. Everywhere I go in Brisbane brings up some memory of the time we were together.
Everywhere in Brisbane is tinted Holly coloured. I don't know where to put to do or where to
go. Everywhere in Brisbane, my house, just, I can't go to Sydney. That's Holly coloured.
I can't go to Melbourne. That's Holly coloured. Right now I can't go to the UK because that's
Holly coloured too. Because that's where I wanted to go with her. There's nowhere else
in Australia I want to go. What am I supposed to do? Fuck. I need to talk to my therapist
about all of this.
