I've realised that part of the reason I'm calling off philosophy is that I feel like
if I give into it and submit to it, I won't be able to do the other things that I feel
I need to do like focus on my emotional growth and learning and reflecting on my own relationship
and I feel a pressure still to care about and look into feminism. And some of the things
that Holly cared about and wanted me to care about, I feel like I can't, I'm holding myself
back from philosophy and there's more than philosophy, it's like a spirituality I guess,
it feels almost like a spiritual awakening. This stuff is existentially important to me
and it speaks, it's not just an interest, it speaks to my soul. I don't know how else
to describe it. And I'm holding myself back from it because I know that if I let myself
get into it, it will be all there is. And I'm holding myself back because I feel the
pressure to do other things for Holly's sake and because I feel the pressure to do that
because I haven't worked on my mental health so I feel the pressure to work on those things
instead of this but this is part of that. And it's like I can't do both, I guess. It's
like in this instance, I try not to be an all or nothing person but in this instance
it feels all or nothing, like it will take over. So that's probably it, that, that and
like I still haven't decided whether I want to try and work on this game or whether I
want to try and get my 3D printing stuff done. It's like I want to get other stuff done first
before I throw myself into this but that's not really working for me. I think that's
part of where this depression is coming from, this feeling of everything else is pointless.
But then it feels like I can't bring myself to do the philosophy. The spiritual exploration.
Yeah, I don't know. And I was just writing then that I'm kind of coming to the realisation
that being with Holly, I didn't feel like I could explore those things as much because
I felt that pressure to care about feminism. I've kind of internalised that now, like I
need to, I have a duty to do that. And if I'm going to be with a woman, I need to try
and understand a woman's experience of the world, which means trying to understand feminism,
but I do, I accept that. But this is more important to me. This is so deeply existentially
important and personal and this has to come first for me. If that means I can't be with
a woman until I've gotten past that stage, then so be it. This is the next stage of self-development
of my growth for me, I think. And if I can't be with Holly because of that, then so be
it. This is more important to me. This is more important to me than feminism and will
be. It's not like it's completely divorced. This journey of self-discovery necessarily
means an exploration of my values and my values involve understanding others, which involves
understanding women's experience. But, yeah, I can't bow to Holly's expectations. I can't,
which means I maybe can't engage with Holly about feminism, which means I maybe can't
be with Holly. I don't know, maybe I'm creating something that isn't there. Maybe I'm creating
the expectation or a pressure that isn't there. It's like I don't, I know you want me to care
about feminism and look into it. I don't know if I can. I don't know if I can do that. This,
whatever this is, it's not just philosophy. It is a burgeoning spirituality. It feels
more important to me than everything. Than almost anything else. I don't know if it
feels more important to me than you, but it feels like a calling. It feels like something
I have to do and I can't crush that down to conform to your expectations of what I need
to do to be with you. I just can't do that. And that isn't saying that I don't care about
feminism or that I'm not interested. I am and I do care and I don't care what you think.
I am more feminist. I am more interested and more empathetic and sympathetic to all of
those ideas than almost anybody, any man I know. And I don't have to explain that to
you and I don't have to explain myself and my understanding of those things to you. And
I'm not going to. I know I am more, I know I'm more feminist than any other man, almost
any other man I know. And I'm more concerned about these things and more empathetic towards
women and their problems. And I'm trying to understand more than almost anybody else.
I know that because of all the other men I've spoken to. And I am frustrated by other men
and their unwillingness to look and to understand. So I don't care what you think. I feel like
you think I am bordering a little misogynistic or something or that I just don't care or
I'm unempathetic or none of those things are true and I don't care what you think about
that because you are wrong. That is a more an inability of myself to express myself and
I think in some ways an inability of yourself or you to listen. There's always, I could
always be better and there's always more to do. But I'm just not going to, I refuse to
feel pressured and into being more than I am when there are other things that matter
to me. I'm just not going to accept that. So if that means we can't be together then
I have to accept then that's, that's over here. I don't want that to be the case. But
I was feeling that when I was with you. I was feeling like I couldn't open myself up.
Like I didn't, being with you didn't make me feel like this was okay. It didn't make
me feel able to, I didn't feel able to. It's like being with you wasn't, wasn't, I felt
in some ways less able to be myself in this regard. In some ways, in a lot of ways I felt
more able to be myself. But in this regard and in this way, and this thing is the most
important to me now, I felt unable to be myself. I felt like I was being seen as just a fucking
man, as just an unempathetic and that's not me. And because of those and because of that
pressure I felt, which some of that, a lot of that was definitely internal, I didn't
feel able to be myself. I didn't feel able to explore those parts of myself and I need
to be with somebody where I can do that. That is the most important thing to me right at
this, right at this stage in my life. For you, the most important thing for you is unravelling
your trauma and your relationship with your family and exploring yourself and your independence
and who you are without the pressures and understand and thing of your family and other
people and discovering yourself. For me, the most important thing right now in this stage
of my life is uncovering this burgeoning spirituality and what it means for me and this obsession
with meaning, which is not, it's not an obsession. It's not, it is, it's not, it's like a, it
feels like a, I don't know how to explain it, it feels like a calling. I am called to
it, I am pulled into it and I can't do anything else other than, I can't be anything else
other than that and I can't be with somebody that, I can't be in a relationship where I
don't feel safe to do that or I can't, I don't feel safe to explore that. I can't, I just
can't do that and I wasn't feeling safe in our relationship to do that. I was in some
ways like, you know, your love of books and of knowledge and of self-exploration inspired
me but I also felt minimised. I felt, I feel like you didn't, I couldn't get you to see
me. I felt like all I could see, sometimes all you saw was a man who didn't want to care
about feminism and those things just aren't true. I can't, I can't be in a relationship
where that's the case. That is inconceivable to me. If that means I have to give you up,
so be it. I don't want that to be the case but if that has to be, then it has to be.
Just like if you maybe can't be with somebody who doesn't, either doesn't care about feminism
or doesn't care about feminism to the degree that you do or, I suspect there is some, you
have a similar thing because you are on this, you are on a feminist journey of self-discovery
which heavily involves feminism, I feel like you have a similar feeling, like you maybe
can't be in a relationship where you don't feel safe to explore those things and those
sides of yourself and maybe you need somebody to be with somebody who cares about those
things as much as you do or is able to, I don't know, I'm not sure, I'm not quite sure
but I just get the sense that we had, that you maybe feel the same about this as me and
that I maybe can't, I don't think, I suspect I maybe can't fulfil your needs and expectations
around this and you maybe can't fulfil mine. I'm not sure if I'm right. I don't know if
there is a right there but it's a suspicion I have, it's a worry, it's a strong worry
I have and it's a suspicion I have and it's a boundary I'm realising I have. I can't,
I don't think I can, I don't think I can, I don't think I'm willing to meet your expectations
around feminist ends and diversity, like disability allyship. I just don't think I can do those
things. And that maybe means our needs and our values are incompatible. It often kind
of felt like that in our relationship.
[wind]
