I've been thinking about Holly and I was just sitting in the shower thinking about what I would say to her.
I was fantasizing about her. It started with thinking about her.
Okay, I'm going to go through very quickly so I can remember the chain of events so I don't forget.
I think context is important so I don't forget the important point.
Then I'll come back and reiterate on each of those.
I was in the shower, thinking about Goodreads, thinking about Holly seeing me on Goodreads,
thinking about her messaging me and saying, "I miss you. I want to get back together. I was wrong.
I made the wrong decision."
And how I would respond to her and say, as much as I wish it wasn't the case,
it's unbearably painful that it isn't, you made the right choice because we were wrong for each other.
I'm deeply hurt by a bunch of things, particularly the stuff around...
You didn't see the things I did and you saw me not doing things and immediately equated them with me being a man.
You applied your feminist ideological lens to it immediately and erased my own experience.
And then I was thinking a bit further and then telling her what I would say to her about,
"Also, I don't think I want to be with somebody who's like that. I don't think I want to be with somebody who's honestly a borderline zealot like you are."
That's a simplification. I think that's an emotional oversimplification.
Because there are elements of her that aren't like that.
In which way I can see that she could see through those things.
And when she argues and talks and discusses, it feels like there's no space for anybody else.
Because you're so convinced of your own opinion.
And all that stuff.
And I don't think I want to be with somebody who's like that.
And then I thought, "Maybe I can see ways in which she could get to a point where she isn't like that."
But also, that's asking her to... this is the stuff she cares about so much.
It's asking her to change her fundamental beliefs kind of thing.
Maybe. But the important part is that I got to is I realised she needs all of those things.
She needs that anger, she needs that forcefulness, that opinionatedness, that... she needs all of those things.
Because she has come from a place of being minimised, of crushed, of stood on.
Nobody listening to her.
And at the same time, simultaneously being told that she's too much.
She's come from a place of... and so many other... she was...
She needs that anger, she needs all of those things to get through.
She needs to go on that journey of feeling that anger.
And it can't be really, probably any other way.
It's asking her to do something that she can't do.
I don't think she would be able to do it, and she shouldn't have to do it.
And that's actually a necessary and important part of her growth.
She needs to be able to get angry and stand up for herself and discover who she is.
And...
The ways in which her family let her down, which are so heavily wrapped up in gender relationships and patriarchy.
Patriarchal systems. The ways in which she was abused as a... and sexually assaulted, which are wrapped up in...
In that. The ways... all the problems that she faces of feeling like...
She had to mould herself to fit in with everybody.
She's lost her sanity, she doesn't know who she is.
And the severe lack of self-confidence and feeling selfish and...
All of those things are things that she can't do to get to where she needs to go.
She can't do what I need from her, which is to be more...
No, not more considerate, more balanced.
She needs that. Like I was saying, she is very opinionated.
The way she talks, she talks very opinionated, but it's because she's reacting to the way that she was previously earlier in her life.
She's trying, she's pushing hard the other way, she's over-correcting, and she needs that.
She cannot get to where she needs to go without doing those things.
She can't do that without being a hardcore feminist, without being angry, without blaming the government.
All those things.
Where she's at is actually necessary for her.
And it's... I wish it was any... I want a balance out of her.
And she can't... her journey doesn't involve that just yet.
Maybe it will one day, but it doesn't involve that just now.
It involves passionate, righteous self-discovery.
Because she's right to be angry about all of those things.
She's absolutely right to be angry about all of those things.
Her life has been destroyed again and again and again.
And I can't ask of her to be balanced, to have that balanced... I don't know what the term for it is, but you know, that balanced, considered approach.
Consider the other side of things, because she needs to have her... she needs her side of things, her strong side of things to get her through what she has dealt with.
To push her through, to get through the blocks in her way, so that she can grow past the ways in which she's been held back.
And it's just really unfortunate that I need the opposite.
I'm going the opposite direction. I'm growing into... I'm also trying to be more assertive and more self-understanding and more self-confident.
But the things I value the most are the opposite of that.
The absolute open-mindedness and empathy.
And obviously I don't do that in all instances, I'm human.
But I value that so much and I don't... it's no fault of her own. It's not a bad thing, it's just the way she needs.
I don't know if it's the way she'll always be, but it's the way it's what she needs right now.
What she needs and what I need are basically the opposite thing.
And that... wow, this is meaning making an action.
That suddenly makes it... it's not going to make the pain go away, and I'm probably going to forget this, but this moment will stick in some ways.
This feels like it suddenly makes sense why it didn't work.
This is like... almost like this feels like the moment of insight about her entire relationship.
The deepest dynamics in our relationship as to why it didn't work and why it's okay that we were not together and why we ended things.
Why she ended things.
And why that's actually a good thing.
Because we were hurting, because we weren't working because our values and our needs, what we needed out of each other, conflicted.
I was deeply hurt by those aspects of her, by the way she applied them to me.
But she needs them for herself.
And there will be someone out there who that works for.
And she deserves that.
And both of us deserve to be happy and to be with somebody who... and she deserves to be happy.
And to be with somebody who can... who those parts of herself works with rather than doesn't in my case.
Because that's actually at the core of her and who she is at the moment and the journey she's on.
And I couldn't be there for that part of her journey.
As much as I wanted to be aware, as much as I wish that wasn't the case, I have to be true to myself and she has to be true to herself.
And that takes us in different directions.
And that's okay.
It still hurts. It's still almost unbearably painful that that's just how things are.
That that's the reality. That that is the sad reality. The unavoidable sad reality.
That I wish it so much that there could be someone... not the different way because our love was so wonderful.
It was so good in so many ways.
And we were so good for each other in so many ways. And I loved her so deeply.
You know, I thought I was going to be with her for the rest of my life.
But I was struggling because it wasn't right.
We weren't right for each other.
In so many ways we were right. But in the deepest, most fundamental way we weren't.
At least right now. Maybe there will come a point where we've both grown in ways that...
I don't know, honestly, I think the direction the path she's on is just going to take her further in that direction.
Which is taking her further away from me. Which means really we had the time together that
we had and that was the time where we were... we did actually work together for a while I think.
The problems got worse because there was an underlying problem.
But those differences became magnified. We drifted apart.
Our directions we went in went the opposite ways which magnified the problems.
And that's why it was better to begin with. It was the chemical.
It was the newness and the chemical rush.
But it was also because she was less strident in her beliefs. She was less...
She was less forceful. She was less ideological. She was less...
She cared about all those things then but I loved that about her.
Over time it became more in a direction that didn't work for me and my values and my needs.
So the reality is... it wasn't that there was this... we had the time we had.
And when it started to feel too much it was because it was too much but it was also because
those differences were becoming greater. We were drifting apart.
That was the reality. It felt like we were drifting apart which was so f*cking painful.
It was probably the most painful thing I've ever experienced, that drifting apart.
It makes me want to cry so badly.
But that drifting apart was an outcome of... that emotional drifting apart was an outcome of the fact
that we were actually drifting apart in who we were. We were growing apart.
We were growing... both of us were growing but we were growing in different directions.
And we just couldn't continue and that's okay. We had the time we had.
And it was wonderful even when it was so difficult and it was awful.
It was still wonderful in the times that we had that were... where we were closer.
So I will cherish those for the rest of my life and they've had such a massive impact on me and who I am.
I've grown in so many ways and I will never ever regret that time.
Especially those first two years.
I will hold onto those for the rest of my life and I will cherish them for the rest of my life.
And I will love what we had for the rest of our life, my life.
And I don't think I love her anymore.
I think I love that my love is what we had. Who we were. Who I was with her and who she was with me.
In those first at least two years of the relationship and in some ways the third year.
The year and a bit.
I'm not sure if it could be different but it's not and that's just the reality.
That's the healing. The healing and the sadness. Having in the shower.
The sadness is the accepting of the painful reality.
The sadness is the emotion that allows us to accept the painful reality.
The pain of reality that we don't work anymore and that is fundamentally so sad.
And that's okay. And I needed to have that experience. I wouldn't have it any other way.
There's things I'd probably change about it but I wouldn't change that experience on the whole at all.
I'm so thankful to her. I'm so thankful for that time we had together.
I'm so thankful for the ways in which I grew and what I learned.
And that I will be better prepared for the next time.
You know, in some ways that relationship was a very difficult complex relationship for my first relationship.
But it was also so wonderful and loving for my first relationship.
It wasn't shallow at all.
In some ways I'm very, very lucky to have had who early as my first partner.
I'm so lucky to have had that love.
To have that growth in my very first relationship.
Thank you, Holly. Thank you so much.
Thank you for loving me and for giving yourself to me, what you did.
And now I just, it's just a process of over time coming to accept that and healing and moving on.
As painful as that is, as painful as letting her go is and moving on.
I'm getting there but it's still a long way to go and I really wish I could talk to somebody about it.
Everything I've just said I wish I could talk to somebody about.
I don't know, there's no one other than maybe mum.
I don't feel emotionally safe. Mum's the closest thing I personally feel emotionally safe to talk to about this.
I don't think I can talk to any of my male friends and I don't really have any female friends I know well enough to be able to talk about this.
And they only see my therapist once every two or three to four weeks.
We only get an hour so I can't really talk about this.
I want to talk to somebody about this so badly.
I want to be comforted. And I lack that.
I love you Ollie. I will always love you in some way or another.
I will always cherish what we had and love what we had.
And I hope that you get to where you need to go and you grow in the ways you need to go and you find somebody to love you in a way that works.
Because you deserve all of those things.
I love you so much.
Goodbye.
Just an addendum.
Knowing that I was thinking she probably couldn't do it any other way.
Because she was struggling but also realizing she couldn't do it any other way because she needed to be the way she was.
She needed the ways in which, honestly even in the ways in which she hurt me, the parts of her, the ways she is that made her hurt me.
She needs those things and that's okay.
And that makes it easier to accept.
It makes it a little bit easier to forgive. It still hurts and I'm probably going to hold onto that hurt and it'll probably hold onto that hurt forever in some ways.
And learn from it I guess.
Because I don't want to ever be treated like that again by a partner.
But it's also okay to know that, it also makes it a bit more okay knowing that it couldn't really have been any other way because that's what she needed.
And that's okay for her to have needed that.
She's just on a different journey to me.
I have so much empathy for her because the way everything she's been through, that's how her world seemed to her.
It couldn't be any other way and she needed those things to get to the growth that she needed, to get her away from where she was.
The way she is now is a reaction to her earlier experiences.
She's trying to heal, she's trying to grow and she needs that.
It hurt me.
And I'm probably going to hold onto that but I can also understand that those parts of her that hurt me are so necessary for her and her own journey.
And that's why it hurt me because it was not what I needed despite it being what she needed.
And that's why we didn't work and that's why we're not together.
That pain I feel, that hurt I feel about the way she treated me, the way she treated me, the way she acted, the way she thought about things.
That pain is a consequence of my needs and the differences in our needs and understanding.
And that means that I now have clarity about what I need, I have clarity about what she needed and I have clarity about why we didn't work.
It wasn't because we did anything for each other, it's because we did something wrong to each other, it's because we were something wrong for each other for those reasons.
What we needed fundamentally was different and that hurt both of us.
And that sucks but that's learning lessons. Growing takes that pain, it takes those mistakes and growing from them.
And it's unfortunate because that pain is so bad, like it was almost unbearable and I have shrunk back from that pain.
But that's what started me leaving the house and just moving straight to the UK as well, not wanting to feel that pain, that overwhelm again.
But I had to feel that to learn these things, to grow in the ways that I have.
That's the Nietzschean worldview, that's my worldview.
Growth is pain and struggle and that goes back to Heraclitus and Brett Anderson's thing.
Struggle is absolutely necessary for life, for growth. You can't have one without the other.
Which is unfortunate because it fucking sucks when it happens.
And I need to find a way to grow to a point where that pain, the fear of that pain doesn't hold me back because I'm afraid of that pain from last year.
I'm very afraid of it, that was almost the most pain I've ever felt in my life.
And I really don't want to go through that again but the reality is I probably will and I probably have to.
And I have to try to be aware of the ways in which that fear is affecting my behaviour and what I choose to do in my plans and goals.
It's why I'm here, it's why I fled back to home again.
It's what I keep doing, I keep running back home and it's okay for now because it's also given me space to explore important things.
I feel like I'm at a real crux point in my life.
It's about not feeling like that from day to day. But I am at a real crux point and it's okay to take the time.
It's okay sometimes to run away and heal.
But I need to be aware of my tendency to do that and that it comes from that fear, that overwhelm and pain.
And I'm going to have to face that. I'm going to have to deal with that, I'm going to have to get overwhelmed and feel that pain again.
And I can't live my life not doing that. That's exactly what everybody always talk about.
This is all more parts of my world view but that's exactly what so many people like.
I think Nija and I think Alain de Poton and definitely try not to give a fuck a guy out of not giving a fuck.
It's making mistakes, getting hurt and learning from them.
It's life, it's how you live, it's vulnerability at it's core.
It's being willing to take a hit, to get hurt, to make mistakes, to look like an idiot, to stand out from the crowd.
Because that's the only way to live. If you don't do that you are living a muted life, you are living a shadow of your own life.
You are living a life that everybody else expects of you so that you don't get hurt.
And that's in a lot of ways a meaningless life because the sense of meaning comes from that connection.
It comes from the connection you gain from vulnerability, from being willing to make mistakes, to get hurt, to stand out, to take that leap.
And I need to be aware of that because I have a very strong tendency to not take the leap.
And I think that's where some of my sense of meaninglessness comes from to be honest.
Actually I think probably a lot of my sense of meaninglessness I struggle with in my life comes from that tendency I have to shy back from the cliff, to not take the leap.
I'm a very cautious person and that's it.
And now we're connecting it to one of the most meaningful moments of my life.
God this is all, this is philosophy. This connects to my worldview in so many ways that I'm trying to outline in my philosophy stuff.
God this is like fucking astronomical. This is profound.
Yeah that moment when I was standing out on the, when I was standing out on the in radial when I got locked out and I climbed down the scaffolding.
I had that moment where I just felt, I think I've written about it in one of my journals somewhere, I just felt so, life felt so real.
It felt for the first time in a long time that my life was, that life was actually happening. That's the thing.
So often it feels like my life isn't actually happening. That felt like it was.
It felt like, it actually felt like my life was about to begin. It didn't, that didn't really change.
But in that moment it felt like holy shit this is what life actually is. This is what my life's about to start.
Because I took the risk. I dove in. I dove into vulnerability.
I went against my tendencies and dove into vulnerability.
And in that moment I even, I wrote it down right afterwards.
This feels like such an incredible moment and I've realized that my fear holds me back so often.
And I've realized my fear holds me back so often.
And I've realized my fear holds me back so often.
And it stops me from doing things.
And in that moment I was like, I need to go start going doing, start and go doing things.
I felt like a massive urge to just run out and start doing something.
Anything to start living my life in a different way.
To start pushing back against that fear.
And that's because of this.
That is where so much of my sense of meaninglessness comes from.
Because I don't live my own life. I don't live a full life. I don't live a vulnerable life.
I live a shadow of a life in so many ways.
That's changing. It is starting to change a little bit.
I live a little shadow. And this is becoming part of my world view.
It's being reinforced again and again and again.
It's taking years and it will take a while and that's the thing.
At that moment it felt like this enormous breakthrough.
And it felt like such a meaningful moment.
But it's not moments. And then things just went back to normal and I felt shit.
But that's the point. It's not moments.
It's not the big event.
It's not how our society teaches us.
We are inculturated to believe in the big moment.
The massive. The wedding.
There's these moments that are just supposed to be pivotal and turning points.
And they're supposed to be massive.
They're supposed to be so meaningful.
So there are so many meaningful moments in our lives.
But that's actually the everyday.
But that's not actually what happens.
Because you have a moment of absolute meaning.
The flood of meaning.
And then things go back to normal because it's your everyday habits.
It's the everyday. It's the every lived moment.
It's not the large moment. It's not the large event.
It's the everyday moments.
And my everyday moments are cautious and ruled by fear and holding back and not being vulnerable.
So my worldview, all this philosophical stuff also directly connects to my mental health stuff.
And the ways in which I've found that I've actually really struck me at all the stuff I've been doing.
Directly connects to what I've learnt from my relationship with Holly.
And that I struggle to be vulnerable.
I have a lot of trouble being vulnerable.
Which means that I'm not myself with other people.
Which means that my relationships are shallow.
Which means that they're not real relationships.
They're not really that connected.
I'm only shallow. I only have weak connections.
Despite what I thought, I actually have weak connections with almost everybody around me.
Because I'm not actually being myself.
I'm not revealing my true self.
I'm not diving into, I'm not being vulnerable.
Which means those connections aren't meaningful.
And that's where meaningful meaning comes from.
It's those connections.
My connections to other people are not meaningful because I'm holding back. I'm cautious.
My connection to myself is lacking meaning because I'm holding back. I'm cautious.
There's other stuff that would go into these.
And then probably my connection to the world because again I'm holding back and I'm not engaging with the world.
That's probably where my sense of meaninglessness, that's a large part of where my sense of meaninglessness comes from.
Comes from...
It comes from a lack of fear of vulnerability and holding back from...and caution.
Ah, god damn. Holy shit.
This is...
This has been something else tonight.
Like a massive insight moment about Holly and the end of my relationship with Holly.
A massive insight moment about my thing I've been struggling with for years.
The sense of meaninglessness that actually drives most of what I'm...
Drives pretty much everything I'm interested in.
What I'm trying to do with my life is because of that sense of meaninglessness.
And that actually that connects to my burgeoning worldviews and the philosophy I'm interested in.
And the mental health work I'm doing is connected to those things.
Because you know, mental health work, not having boundaries, not having...
Not knowing what my needs are, not standing up for those things because I'm not connected to myself.
Because I'm not accepting vulnerability.
I'm putting up walls, I'm being avoidant. I'm putting up my castle walls.
Wow. Holy shit. And that's...knowing these things isn't going to change anything straight away.
You have to know that. You have to accept that.
You just have to try and keep it in mind and it's about choosing as often as you can in moments where you...
Every moment that you can, choosing to do things differently.
And I feel that growing. It's gaining momentum.
But it will take time. It probably will take many, many more years if not the rest of your life.
Because it's not...the inertia of daily habits is enormous.
Because that's the reasonability, that's the heuristics, the bias, the getting through everyday life.
God damn. I love this. I'm so glad I started doing this.
That was absolutely a flow state. And it feels like an inside cascade.
That was an inside cascade. It just feels amazing. That sense of just...
Connection, connection. It's connections. See? Meaning connections. Inside.
It's all linked. It's just...this web. This web of...
Constantly building web that just pulls in everything. And those moments, I love it so much.
I fucking will live for that. I'll live for that. For that inside rush.
Oh, this feels so good.
