I'm reading some articles about Slate Star Codex at the moment.
Oh, I feel really sick. It's like motion sickness.
I think it's because I was reading really small text on my phone while I was in the bus.
Oh, Christ.
Oh, this... I might need a moment.
I'm reading some stuff on Slate Star Codex, which is about...
It's like that... I can't remember the guy's name. That'll have to do.
It was a weird series of things that got me there, and I was reading a piece.
He's talking about feminism. I think he's being a bit simplistic and narrow-minded about some things.
He has a very clear bias, but he's basically talking about why he doesn't like feminists.
And giving a whole bunch of...
Mostly related to feminist websites like Jezebel and a few others.
Just ripping into this whole idea of nice guys and men who are talking about how they struggle with feelings of not being wanted and lack of romance and all that kind of stuff.
And a lot of these sites just ripping into these people and saying they're entitled, basically.
And it made me think about Holly.
And it made me realize I had a bunch of thoughts and I was having a conversation with her in my head.
Thinking about how I'm actually not sure I would want to be friends with her anymore.
But at least not without some serious fucking conversation about some things.
But it made me realize just how much I felt bulldozed and trampled in our relationship.
How much I felt like there were some things seriously wrong or seriously misguided or short-sighted in her views.
And I felt completely unable to talk to her about any of those things.
And I felt like it was a combination of her and her approach to her ideas, her upbringing.
Her approach to discussion and argument and ideas and talking about things.
A lot of which comes from her family and the bullshit way they do it.
And also her experiences of being minimized in her life and trying to push back against that.
And trying to be more forceful in her ideas and stand up for herself.
And the degree of how much she cares about these things she cares about because of the ways that they have directly impacted her in her life.
And those are all understandable things.
But because of those things, it was a combination of that and me being the kind of person who doesn't like conflict, struggles to express myself,
often has strong values around things and knows a lot of things but can't bring it all together to express it.
And it's all kind of like bubbling under the surface.
But just having this really strong sense that there are things I want to push back against in her conversations, her views around things.
And being completely unable to do that.
And honestly a bunch of that was because of, it was both of us, but I felt trampled.
I felt minimized. I felt like I wasn't allowed to have opinions on things.
I felt, yeah, I felt, and I'm realising now, thinking about it more and reading some of this stuff that I think I was right.
Not that that's overly simplified.
There was obviously, there was always going to be countless ways in which I was right and countless ways in which I was wrong.
Right and wrong mean and all those things.
But there were senses in which my feelings about things, my gut feeling, my intuition about things and her views and the way she talked about things was,
I was onto something.
You know, the way she talked about entitlement and how her complete bias and honestly borderline misandry, her incredible, very deep bias towards against men.
That she forced me into, that she shaped me into her ideology. She didn't see me and the things I was going through she just saw me doing things in a certain way aligned with her ideology.
I was entitled or I was a lazy white man etc etc.
And she completely fucking bulldozed over my experience.
And I think my intuitions about things were often, well maybe not, it's hard to say how much, hard to quantify.
But I so often felt like I was, because of her, because of the way I am and because of the way she was, because of my desire to like try and give space to the other
and her massive desire to not do that, I often felt like maybe I was wrong.
That my intuitions were wrong, that I was maybe just needed, I did need to just shut up and listen.
And I'm getting the sense that, that feeling, that conundrum of being, I felt gaslit.
Honestly in some ways I felt gaslit. As much as, that's not the correct term because that's not really what gaslit means and also I hate that term.
I felt, I don't know if I felt manipulated or, I don't want to do this bullshit of reducing it to some fucking buzzword.
I felt like I had legitimate ways of being and seeing and those were just ignored and bulldozed over and other ways of being and seeing were forced onto me.
Like a lot. I felt like that was a pretty big, and that was why I was uncomfortable with so many of our conversations.
Because often I didn't feel like I was allowed to even fucking have an opinion at all. I wasn't able to express one, I wasn't allowed to have one.
Yeah. And I'm actually really, I'm really angry. I'm really angry about it.
In this state I'm in right now, I think if I was feeling like this as I am right now and Holly emailed me and said "Hey do you ever want to be friends?"
I would tell her to get fucked probably. To be like "Absolutely not. I never want to see you again. I love you and I probably always will but you,
I do not want to be friends with somebody who is like this, who sees the world in this way and is able to bulldoze me the way you did.
It goes so heavily against my values the way you see the world. The one sided fucking, yes there is a great deal of legitimacy and validity to your views.
And the ways in which you are short sided are understandable but it doesn't mean I have to fucking put up with it.
The way you see the world is utterly so against my values that I don't think I could be friends with you.
And I don't think I want to. And at the very least I would not be, regardless of what mood I am in, even after I've calmed down, I would not be able to be friends with you
unless we have a long and frank conversation about some of this shit. Because I don't think I want to be.
There's no point being just like acquaintances or, you know, kind of shallow friends.
There's no point doing that because we can, both of us can get that from many other places.
I feel like if the only reason to be friends is because we care about each other and we want to keep each other in our lives and we want to,
which means necessarily we want some kind of meaningful deep relationship, deep friendship.
Like there's no point just staying in contact to stay in contact because we can't let go of things.
That's just going to hurt us both. If we were to have a friendship, the only reason to do it would be to have a meaningful, real, powerful friendship.
Because, you know, it is like that because we know each other in the way that we do. But I don't want a friendship like that with somebody who sees the world the way that you do.
Well, look, I don't know. Maybe that's just me being angry and being, like I think I have very legitimate reasons to be really angry and hurt.
Maybe after a while, like there is probably maybe some value in having somebody who...
I certainly don't want to ever be, I don't think I would never want to be with somebody who seeks the world that way.
I would, unless the way you see the world changes, I would never want to be with you.
Because the way you see the world is completely at odds with my values.
Not completely at odds. There's a whole lot of ways in which our values intersect.
But your shortsightedness around men and women is not something I want to deal with in a relationship.
And I don't want to be in a relationship with somebody who sees the world that way.
And right now I don't want to be friends with somebody who sees the world that way.
But having said that, there is potentially, maybe there is value in being friends with somebody who...
Our friends don't have to see the world the exact same way we do.
Most of my friends don't see the world that way.
They are shortsighted in the exact same way, the opposite direction.
He's been hurt by women a bunch, although a lot of that has also come from him.
But he's been hurt by women a bunch, and now he has overapplied that and kind of does the same shit that Holly does, applied to women.
And I don't reject him. I think it's because we were together.
So there is maybe value in being close friends with somebody who...
With Holly. I just, yeah. I just, you know, I still want Jayden to...
I don't know how to say it in a non-superior, non-judgmental way, but I want Jayden to be better.
I want Jayden to grow and see the world in a more full way.
That's why I want to show him the John Vivecki stuff.
Because I think he sees... There are things in the ways he sees the world that I think hurt him, hold him back, and also are not...
That are small-minded. And I want him to grow past that.
And it's like, is that me trying to force my views onto somebody else?
What's the validity in that? Is there validity in that?
Is that me feeling superior? I don't think it's me feeling superior, but...
You know. I don't know.
But I do want, at the same time, I do still want him to do that stuff.
Yeah. I don't know.
That's hard.
So maybe I think I am just being emotional.
But definitely, right now, no.
Maybe after a while, after healing and seeing the world and growing and healing and moving on...
Yes, there could potentially be actually a lot of value in being close friends with Holly.
But I don't think I would ever want to be in a relationship with her when she sees the world the way she does.
And I don't think I could ever tell her that.
Like, if I think if I said that to her, you know, I don't want to be in a relationship with you because of your views around feminism and men and women and gender...
That would probably make her never want to speak to me again.
And maybe I'm being unfair, like there's probably more nuance to her views.
Because I believe she is capable of nuance. I believe she is an intelligent, kind, fairly open-hearted person.
She does have very large biases and blind spots around men and gender and women and gender.
But she is also an open-minded, kind, giving-forgiving kind of person.
You know, who is intelligent and able to deal with nuance.
I wish she was better at dealing with nuance, but she is able to deal with nuance.
And I am probably being unfair and there's probably ways in which she...
There are elements of her views that she probably...
Her view probably is more nuanced than that. She just wasn't able to express it because of her being triggered and just struggling to express things the same way I do.
So I should entirely write her off.
But what I have experienced in the ways that you have... It may not be that accurate. It's definitely not a completely accurate picture because I'm never going to get a completely accurate picture of somebody else.
I may not have gotten a picture of me that you intended to give me.
But what I have seen of you, from the way that you presented... From what I interpreted and saw of the way you presented yourself to me and the way you talked about things and what you said,
I see somebody who has massive blind spots around men and women and gender.
And I don't... And in ways that conflict with my values heavily.
All of which is just more evidence that we weren't right for each other and we did need to break up and we need to move on and find somebody... Both of us need to find somebody better for us.
Honestly, I think Holly probably needs to find another feminist woman.
I think that's probably... At this point in her life, that's probably what she needs in a partner.
Somebody who's aligned with her in those ways.
Who's passionate about feminism and disability rights and inclusion and minority rights and all of those things.
Somebody's passionate about all of those things. And a woman.
I think that's the partner she needs right now. Not right now, but at this stage in her life, I think that's what she needs out of a partner.
So yeah, that's more... It doesn't necessarily make it feel hurtless.
I'm still sad, but it does make it a little bit easier to accept.
It's like an extra... One more stitch, I guess, in the wound.
I guess is the best way to put it. It's a little bit more healing, like processing things and realising the ways in which we weren't right for each other that I couldn't see at all.
I was so embedded in it that all I felt was this underlying sense that was screaming at me that something was wrong.
That I was being all loathed and trampled in my view.
My views and my values and my way of seeing the world and my experiences were being delegitimised.
And all I could do was take on her view.
And despite there being a core of it, like at my core, there was part of me that was screaming, "No, this is wrong."
I wasn't able to trust my gut.
And I gave her the benefit of the doubt and tried to listen.
I tried to... I didn't always try to listen.
Wow, no, sorry. I tried to listen. Doesn't mean I did listen.
I tried to say, "Maybe I need to think about this from her point of view."
I tried. Not that I necessarily did because I was caught up in this conflict between knowing something was wrong
and my values around listening to others and being kind to others and open to others.
So I ended up just consciously taking on her point of view and her perspective and feeling like I was the bad guy.
And taking on this perspective that might... delegitimising my own experience
and my own way of seeing and my own way of my own views and values.
But unconsciously, like my deepest parts being like, you know, deep down, "No, I know this is wrong."
I don't know exactly know how, but I know this is wrong.
I can't exactly express how, but I know this is wrong.
I know as much as anyone can know something, whatever "no" means.
And... yeah. But that's something I have to be really, really aware of in any relationship.
Because I am probably going to be drawn to people like Holly, passionate women who are...
Any woman... most women I meet who I... the kind of women I would be probably very interested in
would be the women who are really smart and switched on and passionate about things and care about things
and want to make a difference in the world.
And the majority of women who are in that position are going to be probably hardcore feminists.
That's a generalisation, but that's probably... not all of them,
but that is most of the women I would meet are probably going to be like that.
The women who are switched on and care about things and are thinking about things and are passionate about things
and want things to be different are probably going to care about things in the same...
like the same sorts of things that Holly cares about.
They might have more capacity for openness and they might have more capacity to hear things from another point of view
than Holly did around those things.
And that might be enough.
But I am always going to... I'm going to have to be careful of doing the same...
It's probably going to happen again.
Probably going to have at least one more relationship with that almost exact same thing.
I might be slightly more aware of it. That doesn't mean I'm going to know what to do.
Like I'm going to have to be somewhat aware of that happening.
Because of my own proclivities, my own proclivities of trying to...
my own lack of boundaries, my own... which are kind of like...
are kind of in some ways come with my attempt to be open to others.
It's necessary... like openness to others is necessarily like more porous boundaries.
The harder the boundaries you have, the less open you are to others.
It's like... you know, if you're like, "No, this is the way things are."
"No, I'm not going to do that. No, I'm not going to think about things another way."
"No, I'm not going to think about your perspective. This is my view."
That is a hard boundary.
And that's another instance of the trade-off relationship between...
you know, the more you have boundaries, the stronger and the more hard your boundaries,
the less open you are to others and their views.
The less open you are. You can't have strong boundaries.
And it's about finding a balance between...
it's about finding a balance between having the right boundaries
around the right things in the right context at the right time, for neesis.
And that's extremely hard to do.
And it's going to lead to either overdoing it and having too hard boundaries
or underdoing it and not having boundaries and like, you know,
being subsumed into other people, as happened with Holly and I.
Because I am so... like, I value... so heavily, I value trying to consider others' points of view
and be open to them, along with a lack of skill in being able to know
when to hold up my own boundaries and, you know, when to be like, "No, actually I'm going to..."
or "hold my hard boundary and try..."
It's like you can't... it's like you're knowing how much to consider the other's points of view.
Which certainly makes it a lot more understandable when so many people aren't like this,
despite how much I value it, and it annoys me how much other people aren't like that,
how close-minded they are.
You know, that's in some ways important because it means they don't get subsumed into other people as much.
And that's the inevitable downside, that's the inevitable cost of being open-minded,
trying to be open-minded in the way that I am, in the way that I value,
which I'm always going to do, so I'm always going to have to be aware of that.
And I guess I have to find somebody who's able to do...
which is probably why I care about being with somebody who's open-minded.
Because if I'm with somebody who's close-minded, I will be subsumed into them.
I'll be unable to express myself despite knowing, feeling that there's something wrong,
and if they're, you know, if they're... if I feel there is legitimacy, even if that's...
or if, you know, in some of the things that...
some of the legit hollies, what I thought was holly's legitimacy was coming from purity codes,
like John Vivecki talks about, basically being shamed into things because, you know, like,
you know, women have to deal with all the shit that men do,
and I want to be a good man, therefore I should care about this stuff.
Which means that's valid, but it also comes with the downside of
sometimes I'm going to not look at things because I feel...
because my boundaries around those are more porous because I'm...
because of the shame around it and the desire to be a good person and all of those sorts of things.
I maybe should have questioned that I didn't because holly didn't want me to
because she felt that what she... I'm saying I shouldn't be questioning,
but also my desire to give her what she needed or what she wanted or to be seen as a good person
or to perform a good being, a good man, etc., etc.,
and not be seen as doing those things that bad men do, etc., etc., which is a purity code.
So I'm going to have to be very careful of that.
And finding that balance between that and not just rejecting those things,
which is what a lot of people do do, what a lot of men do, they just outright reject those things.
Rather than staying open to them, they outright reject them
and just go hard the other way, that I don't want to do that.
That's against my values too.
This is really, really difficult to navigate.
This is such a hard balance to find.
And it is a balance because it's a trade-off relationship.
God, that is such a powerful tool for seeing the world, even if it's not entirely true.
I feel like it... not true. I think it's about truth.
I think it is reflective of the world in some ways, but it is... it's just another tool.
I think it's a powerful tool that is reflective of the world in some cases, just like science is.
It's not absolutely true always in all cases.
There are ways in which obviously, there's always going to be ways in which it doesn't apply
and things that don't... and it needs to be... we need to be important about not getting...
I need to not get locked into it and always apply it.
It may only be good in some... useful in some circumstances.
I need to see the holes in it all or not get locked into it, not get locked into that system.
But it is a very powerful tool for seeing, I think.
And one that we don't, I think, use all that much.
[slurping]
