Listen to episode 61 of This Changes Everything, the podcast.
Talking about attachment styles again.
And I don't remember, I'm up to about 40 minutes, I think.
Yeah, 40 minutes.
I can't remember what exactly it was that triggered this thought in me, but just thinking
about, yeah, they're talking about, they're talking about the question of whether you
can change your attachment style if you're, you know, can you become secure if you're
a different kind of attachment style.
And Sarah talks about how she thinks you can, but in the same way that, like Charles Duhigg
talks about habits, changing habits where it's like, you know, you have a blueprint
that you're going to probably revert to and you have to do a lot of work to build on top
of that.
You know, I can do, I am, I can and am do work on myself, which should be, it should
be said that that's quite difficult, that takes a lot of resources.
So I should be proud of myself for that and I should be understanding of people who don't
do that and be proud of, and, you know, proud of people who do do that as well.
So it takes a lot and life is not really, our modern capitalist life is not really set
up to enable it all that much.
We don't exactly get much fucking space and time built into our lives for that.
We have to create it, which often comes at the expense of other things and causes stress.
But I am changing a bit and, you know, that's a process that will be ongoing, but I also
have to recognise that I have an underlying blueprint that I can do all the fucking work
in the world, especially earlier on in the process like I am where I am now, but in stressful
situations, you know, when I'm really struggling or when things are getting really hard or
things are really stressful, even just sometimes it might just happen out of the blue, I will
default to what I'm used to, which is probably shutting down, getting overwhelmed and feeling
ashamed.
Like, feeling ashamed of myself and then probably on top of that, getting, having negative feelings
towards my partner and becoming ashamed of those feelings and then going into a spiral.
That's probably what, at the very least, getting overwhelmed and shutting down is almost certainly
going to happen.
And that was what was happening last year and it was, that whole spiral, what was happening
was last year and it was fucking hard, it was really difficult.
It was one of the hardest years of my life.
The shame was a big part of that.
The shame was part of why I think the reason it was so hard.
And I will probably default to that.
But you know, and I am scared of going through that again.
I'm really quite scared of feeling that way again.
But I also have to know, I have to recognise that I still have to, I have to take that
chance.
I still have to try and be in a relationship when it comes to it and not hold myself back
from it because of that reason.
Because something like that will happen again.
It's going to because that is the blueprint.
And I will be a little bit better at dealing with it next time and it will probably play
out a bit differently because different life situations and a different partner with different,
who brings different things and different dynamic.
But some element of that will probably play out again at some point in my life and I have
to accept that and I have to be kind and empathetic towards myself.
And I would like a partner who can be kind and empathetic towards those things too.
I am doing what I can to be better, to improve on those things but when things are hard I
am going to default to certain ways of doing things.
I will probably shut down.
I am trying hard not to but it's a very fucking overwhelming feeling.
What I really need is to, for that to not happen I need to feel safe basically.
The safer I feel in our relationship, the safer I feel to share my emotions, the safer
I am, more likely I am going to be able to do that.
But there will be times where I get over one like that, I shut down and I go into a shame
spiral and it's going to negatively affect me quite a lot.
It will probably be somewhat like last year but I can't let that stop me because that
is letting fear stop me from being vulnerable which is what leads to a meaningful life.
So I need to, I just need to recognise that.
I need to know that it's coming.
That pain is going to come again at some point and do all I can to work on those things in
the meantime knowing that I can't, you know, I can also only do so much.
You know, I can't spend all of my time, all of my life working on this stuff because I
can only spend so much time doing it because there are other things that I need to do that
matter to me and life happens.
And our life isn't exactly set, you know, life is not exactly set up.
Where I am right now, I am in a position where I can work on these things a bit and I intend
to but that won't always be the case.
So it's good to take advantage of that time now but it's also like, I should also not
tear myself to pieces for not constantly, I have a tendency to let that turn into I
need to always be doing this and I feel bad if I, it's like that productivity thing.
It's like I need to always be doing this, I need to always be improving and if I'm not
doing that I feel bad.
So yeah, that's that.
Philosophically interesting this too, you know, a few moments later she says, you know,
when the brain is under stress, when the brain is under pressure, it takes shortcuts to the
default blueprint and that's it.
That is basically the same process that is your brain using heuristics, that is your
brain using the framing that it knows, the world view that it has built up, the frame
of the world that it has built up, that is kind of its default because you need those
things, you need those resources to be able to operate and those resources, because those
frames are always necessarily, they're like a model, they're always inadequate in some
way. There is going to be some way in which you are falling short, which is some mentally
unhealthy way you're doing things or, and that's going to happen and it's going to,
and you're going to revert to those ways of seeing the world and those ways of acting,
because it is, it's a way of, it's a particular set of, it's like a default set of relevant
realisation, like a default mode of relevant realisation. It's, you know, and like David
Chapman says, seeing as, you know, you will notice particular things in the environment
and you'll interpret them in particular ways that are a default for you and you have to
put effort in and skill, learn a skill of seeing differently, of doing things differently,
of interpreting the world differently, which is, you know, of finding different things
relevant, paying attention to different things, interpreting things differently, which is,
you know, still all of that is relevant realisation and the reciprocal relationship between the
self and the world. So yeah, interesting, this is kind of just more examples of that
process of framing that we use to deal with the complexity of the world and how it's always
necessarily incomplete.
