Really, actually, this is something, I think, I don't know, insightful or...
So I'm listening to the first "Voices with Viveki" episode after the last episode of
"After Socrates" where he's talking about AI.
And he's talking about how rationality and intelligence is part of but a poor predictor
of rationality.
And really at the core of rationality is caring about the truth.
And the truth, but the truth, broadly, as he says, broadly construed, you know, the
four kinds of truth that are, you know, the truths for each kind of knowledge.
Like correctness for propositional knowledge, power for participatory, etc.
You know, a rational thing, like what makes something rational is its capacity to care
about the truth as part of a agent arena relationship.
Because it is an agent in an arena, because it is an autoproetic agent in an arena that
is, you know, constantly highly complex and constantly shifting and, you know, all these
trade-off relationships.
It cares about, you know, it has skin in the game because it's trying to preserve itself,
it's trying to make itself.
Because of that, it cares about the truth.
That is one of the things that is at the core of rationality.
And you know, we have wrapped rationality up with logic and, you know, particularly logic
and deduction and inference and all those things.
And they are important, but I think maybe what's happened is that they have been, previously,
they have been our best tool for doing that.
They have been used in the purpose of, they have been used by, in caring about the truth,
to try and find the truth.
But they are a tool of the propositional.
Logic is a tool of the propositional, I think.
Inference is a tool of the propositional, which means that we have gotten wrapped.
Because logic and the tyranny of the propositional are tied together because, like, you know,
we cared about, you know, we tried to escape the illusions of religion through reason and
logic.
Right?
You know, the logic was developed, you know, not developed, but like formalised by Aristotle
as a way to get a great deal of clarity about things, which is a search for the truth.
It's caring about the truth.
And it was an incredible power tool for, it was an incredible power tool for escaping
self-deception, self-deception and self-destruction that arose from things like supernatural and
magical and religious thinking, the problems that arose from that.
So that's why, that's why we have conflated the two.
The underlying thing is still there, caring about the truth.
Because, you know, all these logicians and analytical philosophers, they care deeply
about the truth, but their idea of the truth, you know, they're constantly pushing for clarity
and for truthfulness, but their idea of the truth, the truth they are going for is the
truth of propositions, correctness of propositions.
They have gotten wrapped up in that.
But that happened because it's still part of rationality.
It's a tool for rationality.
It still cares about the truth.
It's just that was the, that was the truth, that was the tool that we had that was most
efficacious by far.
It was like massively powerful.
And that's why that has occurred, I think.
Oh, I want to write an article about this.
God, I wish I could just like pump stuff out.
The thoughts I can produce and the articles I can produce, there's a huge amount of difference
in the speed I can do those at.
This moment at this light bulb moment, this moment of insight at about a minute and twenty-
one minute, an hour and twenty-four minutes and maybe about thirty seconds where he starts
talking about committing to making the machines rational and talking about one of the things
that rationality cares about is rationality, it's becoming more rational.
The aspiration of rationality is exactly the case.
All of these analytical philosophers and logicians and hyperlogical people, and you know, the
Berkeley rationalists, you know, there's less wrong than rationalism, all that, they care
deeply about rationality except that their conception of rationality is basically logic
and correct thinking.
But the underlying thing is still there.
They care very deeply about avoiding self-deception, which is at the heart of rationality.
They're trying to break out of self-deception.
They're maybe over-focusing on a particular tool set for doing that, much like we are
kind of over-focusing on science as a tool set at the moment.
And that's the thing.
These are all tool sets and they can all be used for the same underlying goal.
It's just that some tool sets are better in certain different circumstances and for different
things.
Definite downsides to over-focusing on one tool set at the expense of others.
And we have lost a lot of tool sets like ritual mythology, all of those things.
Minute and twenty-five, an hour and twenty-five minutes and a bit, he starts talking about
going through the different trade-off relationships.
Things I want to include in my article, but the first one he talks about is really interesting.
Very very interesting and very important for me.
[Music]
