I didn't think it was going to happen but Holly emailed me this morning.
Honestly I thought we would probably I didn't think I'd ever hear from her again.
Yeah this is difficult.
I'm feeling that heaviness in my chest that makes everything I say feel like I want to sigh.
I...
I didn't think I was ever going to hear from her again.
And...
I don't know how to feel.
Of course I'm excited. Of course I am.
But I'm also terrified because it feels like there's a yawning chasm just beneath me.
It's about to open back up of all of the distress and pain and uncertainty that came with the period after our break up.
And honestly last year.
And I'm terrified of being... of going back to there.
Um... yeah I don't know.
I'm terrified of going back to a place where I don't feel like I have the capacity or the right to do the things that I want to do.
Because I feel so responsible to her.
So... like I have this weight, this guillotine hanging over me.
To make some decision or to respond to her or to...
Yeah.
I just don't want to go back to where I was.
And she's a drug.
She is a drug.
Trying to put myself back together.
And move myself forward.
And I'm terrified of losing all of that.
Terrified of feeling small again.
And unable to...
You know, all these ideas and thoughts I have.
You know, like thinking about... I was going to do another journal. I probably won't get around to it.
But I was going to do another journal about... I was just listening to episode 65 of...
Jeff... is it Therapy Jeff's podcast? I can't remember what it's called right now.
This changes everything.
I was just listening to episode 65 of that and they were talking about narcissists and gaslighting and how, you know, gaslighting...
When narcissists gaslight you, it makes you question everything.
And I immediately thought, like, well, yes.
But the problem is sometimes we need to.
We should be uncertain of our... we should question our beliefs and our perceptions.
And sometimes it's probably right for other people to push... force us or push us to question ourselves.
And this conversation we're having about this... the way that gaslighting gets talked about, that nuance is just bulldozed.
I feel some... like so many of those nuances get bulldozed in the dialogues that happen, in the conversations that happen.
And I feel like Holly, because her experiences and the way she thinks about things and the social... you know, the media she consumes...
I don't feel like I could talk to her about that at all.
And that makes me feel... when I feel like that with her, I feel small.
And I don't want to feel like that again because, you know, this...
combination of that and feeling like I have to do other things instead, like, you know, read books that she wants me to read and...
I don't want to feel like that again.
But I also want to talk to her.
I don't know what to do.
I know what most people, pretty much everybody would tell me what to do is I should have said...
she said, "Can we talk or no?" I should have either just not responded or said no.
But I was never going to do that.
And it kind of just feels like she's doing the same thing she did last time.
You know, where she's hurt and lost and missing me and reaches out to me and then when I go see her, it's like none of that actually happened.
If you talk to her, it's like that's... none of that's actually there.
You know, when she says that she's been... you know, we have a conversation and she thinks she's thinking about...
and she's worried that she didn't say the right thing and she's thinking about that.
And I get the impression that she's thinking about me and confused and hurt and then I go down and see her and she says,
"You know, I have object impermanence. When you're not here, I don't think about you."
It's not like I've really been doing that well, but comparatively, I've been doing so well.
And I don't want to lose that. I don't want to lose sight of everything.
I don't want to be... lose myself in her again because I do. I lose myself in her.
She consumes me. Well, my mind is consumed by her.
She's literally a drug.
She was wrong when she said it was limerence, but she wasn't wrong when she said it was a drug.
And I have to be really fucking careful.
And I think that losing myself in her is part of why I was trying so hard to make space for myself.
So hard to balance this trying to be open and empathetic with also standing up for myself and my own boundaries.
You know, like she said, "I was unkind to you and you probably don't want to talk to me."
And she was. She was unkind to me.
But of course, I feel myself wanting to play that down because in some ways that is valid.
But there is ways in which... yeah, it's complicated. It's complex. It's so hard to fucking navigate.
And I don't know what she wants.
What do you want from me, Holly?
Why are you reaching out?
I thought we weren't going to do this.
But of course, I don't entirely know what I want. What I should do, how I should react.
There's so many things I want to say to her and also I want to say nothing at all.
Things are already less peaceful.
You are a drug like nothing else I've ever experienced.
I love you so much.
And I lose myself in you.
Boundaries dissolve my ability to...
know what I think.
Ability to stand up for what I think and to express it and to disagree with you.
I find it so hard to disagree with you.
Why I found it so hard to express myself. Why I shut down so much.
But at the same time as all of that, like...
trying to date again...
it does make me realize how much I struck gold with her.
I've never had, and still haven't had, a first date anything like ours.
I've never felt that level of chemistry with anybody else.
Doesn't mean it won't happen, but...
