Listening to episode 180 of Philosophize This, talking about consciousness, and he's talking
about the problems with our worldview and how it basically isn't compatible with, it
doesn't explain consciousness and it doesn't explain subjective experience and it kind
of doesn't leave room for what actually matters in our experience, the things that actually
give life meaning and flavour, things that are actually worth living for, and he brings
that down to basically the scientific worldview and the problems with it.
Talks about how the modern scientific worldview of separating everything and looking at individual
parts, individual disciplines, and looking at everything from a quantitative lens, how
that can separate us from reality, I guess, make us no longer feel connected to other
things and goes hand in hand with this privileging of human consciousness over other things.
He puts together the privileging of human consciousness over supposedly non-conscious
things with basically like the quantification problem of science, puts those two together.
But that is very much a thing I relate to is that feeling of the modern world and its
obsession with quantification kind of stripping the significance from the world and the connection
from the world.
He's interviewing Philip Goff in this, the guy who, one of the guys who kind of really
got panpsychism started and that guy references, Philip Goff references Max Weber and the disenchantment
of the world.
That idea that we kind of like almost strip the significance from the world and the sacredness
and we no longer feel connected to it.
Yeah, all of that.
I think is very much the case and it also kind of goes a little bit hand in hand with
what's, what's his name, fucking Charles, no not Charles Taylor, the Heidegger guy,
Dreyfus. Dreyfus talks about with skills and, well actually I think it is, yeah, talking
about skills and the way that really building skills and like practical skills like building
tables and shit really like builds a reference for the world and how we kind of don't notice
those things anymore and we've kind of slipped into this sort of hyper economic, hyper mathematical,
hyper economic quantificatable world where, yeah, it's a very particular mindset I guess
that I strongly relate to and I strongly relate to this desire to kind of reconnect to the
world. I think it's kind of related to the meaning crisis and what Dundee Vakie talks
about.
Philip Goff says, part of that disenchantment of the world is that we don't fit into the
world that, the picture of the world that science is painting for us. It's like our knowledge
and our world view doesn't seem to have a place for us and our experience which is a
problem when that world view and that like way of doing things and that, you know, in
science is kind of like all that's really seen as legitimate. I think it's part of why
this fucking hyper focus on STEM and like tech, big tech and you know Silicon Valley
mindset and all of that shit is just a big fucking problem. It's like almost not the
logical end point but it's like the most further, farthest progression of that so far.
Philip Goff is offering panpsychism as kind of like a balm to this because it has a place
for both the objective kind of scientific natural world structures, physicalism, all
that and also for the subjective human experience. He also talks about how if we embrace panpsychism,
what does that mean for us and ourselves? What is the self if we are made or composed
of connecti- basically like communities and connections of interconnected, other interconnected
conscious entities? What is the self? Is it just a temporary collection of consciousnesses
in a greater complexity in a otherwise still conscious world kind of thing? And all of
this I think kind of links in some ways to like you know indigenous ways of seeing things
and you know the sacredness of the world and sacredness and significance of the world that
we've lost in a lot of ways which I think is an important thing to kind of reconnect
with. You know and those feelings I had of like what must it be like? How kind of wonderful
must it be to live in a world where walking you know you can walk past a mountain and
it means something. It has a story, it has a place, it has a you know like Holly was
talking about telling me about the stories and the names of the Glass House Mountains
and it's like I had a really strong feeling of like almost like a glimpse of what that
must be like to live in that world where it's not just a pile of rock, it's actually something
really significant that has a personal connection to you and everybody you know. That's really
powerful and I think that builds that reverence and that connection with the world that we
don't have, we've lost I think and I think that's an important part of human knowledge
and that's was a large part that was like the majority of human knowledge for most of
the majority of human existence. That was human knowledge. That was the way that a lot
of us, I mean that's probably overstating it or you know stating things without necessarily
having looked enough but it certainly seems like that's a common thing amongst you know
pre agrarian I guess, even agrarian, pre state societies maybe. I don't know. Yeah. It talks
about how the lines between ourselves and the rest of the world and the rest of the
universe really start to become a lot less clear in that world and I think that's a good
point as in like the counter point of that is that in our world, the world we do live
in, our world view does put up a lot of borders and distinctions. It's kind of about cacorisation
and breaking, putting things into boxes. It's very good at that which is helpful in some
ways but it's also very unhelpful in others. Because I want to be able, I want to be able
to be like well you know the solution to this is to just either one, change society or two,
adopt these views kind of things like become a panpsychist or you know like start to build
a different world view but you can't, you kind of can't do that. You can't just, I've learned
anything from everything I've learned about meaning, it's not subjective. You can't just
create your own world view. You can't just think things differently. It has to arise
out of a mutual reciprocal relationship. You know, you can't just jump out of the social
context and the world view that you're raised in and you can't just create your own little
tiny bubble world view and like you need the kind of community support for that to happen.
Which is why you get shit like communes and you know intentional communities and stuff
but they come with all these other problems. Yeah, fuck it's hard. What does one do when
the overwhelming, you know like the largest society is fucked and is bad for you in so
many ways but you kind of can't just create your own religion or your own world view or
your own spirituality or and just like it doesn't work like that you kind of need a
framework, you need a social framework. Yeah, it's like do you get that from just like a
local community or which is a lot of what David Chapman talks about with like the hippies
and the, it's like what does one do? I think a lot of my problems, all of our problems
but you know it's a problem I feel a lot in my life. I think a lot of all these problems
come down to like that kind of disconnect between the way the world is, the way our society
is and what we need as people, what we need as individuals even if not everybody needs
that although I think to some extent we do but I and a bunch of people I know particularly
Holly really strongly feel the need for that but you can't just create that out of nothing.
You can't just hey me and Holly are going to think this way and then you know that's
how you get fucking cops and all that kind of shit like yeah and you can't overcome those
social dynamics and you can't just create that stuff you need to have the framework
there. You need to have a larger social framework but then how do you do that because that implies
that you need to change society and everything I'm learning and seeing is that you can't
really fucking do that in what you definitely can't do that in one generation so it's like
how do you how do you how do I live the life I want to live basically. How do I live the
way I want to live? How do I not get crushed by society? Fuck. So I think this is one of
the core this is actually one of the core things I struggle with is like struggling
with the way the world is and then the reality of like not really being able to change that
all that much but not being happy with not like you either give up and get crushed like
most so many people do and just kind of go along with the crowd or you fight against
that but then you're the you're an outsider and you're the only person doing that you
feel alone and it's fucking really difficult or you find a small group of people which
is has its own fucking problems. This convinces me even more that the project I am like that's
bubbling away in my head you know about meaning and you know philosophy of data and the hyper
quantification of stuff and the left brain right brain and the being mode and the having
mode all that it's just this kind of like melting pot of ideas that are bubbling away
under there it convinces me even more how important that fucking is how important to
push back against that worldview is.
