listening to episode 7 of Philosophers of This at the moment. I'm going back to the start.
This episode's on Taoism.
And I'm just listening towards the end of the episode, probably the last 5-10 minutes.
He's talking about the Yin Yang.
And he talks about, a little bit about,
it doesn't really go into all that much detail about Taoism in general, to be honest, other than trying to keep things in balance and go with the flow.
Yeah, that's, it'd be like water, but that's an important part of it, that idea of going with the flow.
But he talks about the Yin Yang and how it's an important part of Taoism, although the idea of Yin Yang predates Taoism.
But the core of the idea of Yin Yang is that,
he says it's like a mysterious force
in the universe that has to do with the interdependence of opposites,
which I think is really important in some way.
It just, it resonates in some ways with some of the, so many of the things that I've been,
the patterns I've been noticing and the things that, that kind of conflict and the unity of opposites that Haraquo just talks about
and the life coming about through struggle that Nietzsche talks about and all that kind of stuff.
It just is kind of like middle way thing that keeps coming up every time,
that things are in between, the opponent processing thing.
It just kind of keeps coming up again and again and again, this pattern that I just keep seeing.
Yeah, so I think I kind of want to look into Taoism and the Yin Yang a bit more.
Apparently he just said, so he like raised that similarity to Heraclitus and the unity of opposites.
And he said that the concept of Yin Yang greatly predates Heraclitus.
So that's pretty interesting. I wonder how old Yin Yang is.
This all kind of makes me want to go like study in China for a bit with the monks or something and learn about this stuff.
It definitely makes me want to do Tai Chi more or Tai Chi Chuang or whatever it is that fucking What's This Face does.
Yeah, that's something I've wanted to do for a bit, but I think that particularly makes me want to do it.
And apparently this concept of Yin Yang pervades Chinese culture, like Taoism and the Yin Yanging has an enormous impact on Chinese culture.
So I kind of want to learn a bit more about Chinese culture.
And he raises the point, actually this is really interesting now that I stop to think about it.
He raises the point that the Yin Yang has this enormous impact on Chinese culture.
It is ancient. It's a very fucking old idea and it's still present today and has influenced Chinese culture that whole time.
And it's quite similar to the ideas of Heraclitus.
But the ideas of Heraclitus basically had very little impact on Western philosophy other than giving Parmenides and the Eliatics.
Something to protest, to fight against, to argue against.
And Parmenides greatly was a huge influence on Plato, who was then almost the founding figure of fucking Western philosophy.
And the Western philosophy is kind of like the root of the West intellectual tradition, almost, in a lot of ways.
And now we are facing problems of meaninglessness.
Whereas, because we are coming up against the problem of, like, we are, the Western philosophical intellectual tradition can't deal with nothingness.
Whereas the Eastern philosophical tradition can.
That's the thing I'm reading again and again.
How interesting is that, that link?
And this thing that I'm coming up with, this thing that I'm so interested in, that I found in Heraclitus and that Nietzsche talks about and echoes Heraclitus and actually draws on Heraclitus.
He says that Heraclitus is, you know, that part of the reason of the problems of Western philosophy is that Parmenides basically won in Heraclitus.
Like, kind of sated in obscurity and that Heraclitus is actually really important in Nietzsche's idea, like, belief.
And, you know, Ian McGilchrist thinks Heraclitus is a hugely important philosopher.
Like, all of these things are fucking coming together.
Maybe the fact that Heraclitus was, that Heraclitus and the ideas of the unity of opposites that I am, like, so fucking obsessed with at the moment and, like, see this pattern again and again repeating itself.
Maybe that has something to do, I mean this is probably me fucking jumping to conclusions and grasping in intellectual straws, but maybe that has something to do with the problems we're facing in the intellectual tradition at the moment.
And the fact that, and that synthesis that seems so important between the West and the East, which maybe globalisation will give that opportunity to do.
Maybe that will kind of allow us to overcome some of those, you know, century, like millennia of development of this idea of the yin and yang and the unity of opposites and nothingness and their being okay with nothingness in Eastern philosophy.
And maybe come together with, synthesise with the thousands of years of Western philosophy and Western intellectual tradition and come together to solve each other's problems.
And that's exactly what, you know, a whole bunch of what John Vivecki talked about is kind of that synthesis.
Which makes me more than ever want to go fucking study with JV, Johnny, Johnny V, and also, like, I was thinking about it on the walk back to the car that, you know, we don't really have mentors in our society.
I kind of want a guide, I want a guru, I want somebody to, not idolise, I mean, do kind of idolise him, but somebody to learn deeply from, not just as a teacher, but as a guide.
And, I don't know, maybe John Vivecki can be that for me.
It feels, at the same time, it feels a little bit cultish and a bit like, I think we have an implicit bias against that in the West.
I think I maybe need to be cautious of that, but, I mean, it would be nice to have a guide, like, to have a Heidegger to, you know, to have a, not saying that I am Heidegger, but, you know, to have a, what's his name, a Husserl to my Heidegger kind of thing.
Like a, like a philosophical father figure.
It's, you know, it's something David Chapman and his wife talk about so much, or his partner talk about, that, you know, that learning relationship is actually vitally important.
