So, I'm trying to listen to some stuff by Clementine Ford at the moment.
And...
So, I was listening to an episode she did with somebody, like, she was a guest on an
episode called, a podcast called "That's Helpful" or something like that.
And I'm listening to it, so I listened to a little bit of that and I'm listening now
to a bit of... what's it called?
What is it called?
It is...
Dear Clementine, so it's her podcast where she answers people's questions.
And she raises some good points, but I find her really fucking hard to listen to because
she is consistently disdainful of men and their experience.
She consistently belittles men's experience, basically.
Talking about... like, this episode's talking about...
moving out, like whether you... like the idea of staying in a relationship but moving out
and somebody submitted a question about living with her partner, this lady's living with
her partner and his two friends, but they're not very clean people, they don't really clean
up.
So she kind of talks through that and talks about...
You know, statistically, women are doing a lot more domestic chores.
When men and women are moving together, statistically speaking, men clean up more and women are...
like, men are doing less, their domestic work goes down and women's domestic work goes up.
And yet men are allowed to have a space of their own, like a men's shed, man cave, that
kind of thing, but we don't have the same sort of thing for women.
But she presents it in a way where it's like, you know, because life for men is so hard
and complicated and that they need their own space.
Like yes, life is fucking hard and complicated.
It may be more hard and complicated for women, but that doesn't mean that's not... doesn't
mean life isn't fucking hard for men.
It just feels like she's consistently denigrating, devaluing and...
Something else, there was another word there, men.
And look, yes, it may be the case that there's a lot of men doing shitty things and that
there is big structural problems and power differentials and all that kind of stuff,
but just the way she fucking goes about it, like the amount of anger she has is...
You know, like I...
She doesn't really seem all that different the way she presents herself and like that
level of like attack, attacking things.
She doesn't...
She's...
I don't see much of a difference between her and Jordan Peterson.
There seems to be no desire to work together here.
It's just attack, attack, attack, attack.
Yeah.
And just like the other episode I was listening to, she's like... just starts talking about
the American... the British Prime Minister and how she's evil boot lickers and like...
When people... when somebody who is a public figure just completely fucking writes off
people and their experience, it's hard for me to fucking take anything they say seriously.
All I hear is hate and anger basically.
And that may be justified, but you know, why is...
I mean it's hard to say why is her hate justified, but a Nazi's hate is not because clearly
there's a difference there, but you know, people who are racist, they often have experiences
in their lives that make them feel justified in being racist.
It's not as fucking... it's not as fucking simple as that.
So why is it okay for her to just devalue men and their experience?
It's understandable in that, you know, based on some of the posts she does of showing what
people have talked to her, she gets treated like fucking shit and there is a lot of fucking
absolute dickheads out there, almost like men, absolute fuck wit men, and this is a
systematic... and it's not just blaming it on individual people, it is a systematic issue.
But that... that's still crushing individuals when you... it's still running over individuals
when you act the way she does.
And that really concerns me, and it concerns me that Holly idolises this woman and, you
know, has... her opinions are like in line with this lady.
I think she's a bit extreme to be honest.
And I found some of the views that Holly expressed kind of in line with that.
I don't know if I can respect that.
It's hard though because it's probably pretty hard to find a feminist who's not fucking
angry.
And being angry tends to make you not really think about other people you are angry at.
Kinda goes with the territory, so like, it might be a bit hard to find a feminist who's
like... I don't know, that's probably overgeneralisation, but still, there's a lot of angry feminists.
For good reason.
Things are shit.
But, yeah.
I think this... she's... now she's talking about... she's continuing to talk about the
kind of staying together but living apart thing.
She's talking about it very much from the woman's point of view.
I think this idea, this thing that, you know, you're moving together and the man doesn't
do... the woman does all the housework and the man doesn't.
That played out in some ways in my relationship with Holly.
But the thing is, it's like... why is it a requ... one... I mean it's like... why is it
a fucking requirement that the place is clean?
And you know, what level of cleanliness matters?
I wasn't not cleaning... I mean, there was probably some ways in which I was... it was
the case that I wasn't cleaning certain things because I don't... systemic things like the
... you know, some things that I maybe just wouldn't think to do.
But it's like, why do you need to think to do them?
Why does it have... why does that thing have to be done?
You know?
Like... you know, a lot of the shit I didn't do, I didn't do it because I was overwhelmed.
And I'm always overwhelmed.
So I always struggle to do those things.
It's not because I'm fucking lazy and I'm... I want you to do the work for me.
I don't want you to have to do any fucking work.
Maybe our fucking standards are too high.
Maybe the social/cultural standards that have taught you that you need to clean up, that
the house needs to be a certain level of clean and it's your job to do that, maybe that's
a fucking ridiculous expectation.
To do that and then also have jobs and fucking meaningful lives and social lives and all
that shit.
You know?
I don't want you to have to do all that shit but I can't keep up with it.
And if you... I'm doing the best I can but if you value all of this, then you value it
being clean, you know, super, super clean, maybe we need to... you know, maybe you need
to evaluate your standards of cleanliness.
You know, why is it absolutely necessary that things are... you know, that you have a house
together and then things are clean?
Like obviously some level of cleaning is important.
Otherwise shit just doesn't get done and it turns into a shithole and you know, it stresses
us out, both of us.
But it's like... you know, I just think this is something I'm going to have to keep coming
up against in any relationship because I think women are taught that the house has to be
clean and they should be the one to do it.
I don't want that to be the case but I also don't want to have to constantly be fucking
clean.
I can't keep up with that.
So it's either like I'm consistently going to have these fights about whoever I'm with
about the other person having these standards that aren't being met because they don't want
to clean as much, which I agree with, and I can't keep up with that level of cleanliness.
So what... what... fucking what do?
And then they're going to interpret it as just "you're a lazy man".
That's obviously like a massive generalisation and a prediction that may not be true.
But statistically speaking, women who have been taught to maintain a certain level of
cleanliness are going to be like "you know, you're just being a lazy man".
Like no, I'm not.
I can't... like I know there's certain shit needs to be done.
I am choosing not to do it because it's less important to me than other things.
And maybe you need to do the same.
Or we need to get a cleaner or something because I can't...
I don't want you to have to do all the fucking cleaning but I can't fucking stay on top of
things to the extent that you may need me to.
Right?
Basically...
It's like life is fucked for everybody.
You know, we're struggling to keep things together.
Yeah, it's just...
So if that's not good enough for you, then maybe we need to live separately and I just
live in fucking filth.
And I do have to deal with that and you can live in your house and have things your way
in your house because I can't live up to that... those standards.
And I don't want to.
I want to do other shit with my life.
And cleanliness is important to a point.
But...
Yeah, fuck, it's just... it's really fucking difficult because life is fucking overwhelming
and you should be able to live a meaningful life too and get the things you need and want
and have the time you need and want but I can't sacrifice...
You know, I'm already so fucking overwhelmed.
That whole thing is really fucking hard to navigate.
Being stuck in between societal expectations, this woman's expectations as somebody who's
been raised to believe that they need to be doing, you know, that the house needs to be
a certain level of clean.
And, like, living a meaningful life and being told I need to be doing all these things,
you know, taking in all these messages that I need to be doing all these certain things
and then also making money and, like, it's just... it's fucking unreasonable and it is
crushing me and it's probably crushing you too.
Ugh, look, this more, um...
Clementine Floyd...
God, she just makes all of these fucking sweeping assertions and proclamations like...
You know, the fact that...
She's talking about...
The fact that we have this view in our society that, you know, relationships should occur
in this linear manner where you meet each other, you fall in love, at a certain point
of commitment you move in together, then you get married, then you have kids, which means
that in order to be in a loving relationship the woman needs to, based on the previous
things she was saying of women doing more of the housework and men doing less, you basically...
A woman, it's like you can't...
Society says you're not loving your man unless you are...
You're not in a loving relationship, proper loving relationship unless you are sacrificing
your time and peace and well-being and stuff as a woman to do these things.
And, yep, that's a ridiculous fucking expectation from society.
And then she goes on to say that this expectation, you know, this...
We should be celebrating women who say, "No, I want to move out on my own and do my own
thing and have things my way."
We should be celebrating that, and I agree.
But then she goes on to say that that societal expectation that makes it hard to do that
is a way of keeping women down.
That's the part I fucking disagree with.
I don't necessarily just like, "Yep, that might be the case," but she is saying this
is the case.
It is the case that this abstract, not abstract, this huge, vast, societal thing that is playing
out on average across society is this...
It's like she's saying this is a plan to keep women down.
Like...
Ugh!
No, it's not!
It's not a fucking plan!
It might be like...
Part of...
It might be like...
The system might be maintained...
Like, I don't know.
The system might be maintained in that way because it benefits men, and men have more
power.
But that doesn't mean...
That is a vast assertion to make, and she is asserting it.
She is saying this is the case.
This might be the case, or this could be because of this.
She's saying this happens because it's a way to keep women down.
That is just so...
I don't know what the term to use for that is, but it's fucked.
It's just...
Ugh, the...
The ideological fucking certainty and self-righteousness involved here is just fucking infuriating.
I get it.
Like, and she makes so many fucking good points, but then she just takes it and runs with it.
Fuck!
Like, there is no way I could fucking talk to Holly about this or somebody with civil
abuse.
At all.
They would just say, "No, you're a man you don't understand.
You're not just not listening enough, or you haven't done enough research, or you just
haven't had the experiences we've had."
And yes, to some extent, I haven't had those experiences we've had, and that's that full
of tournament.
But that doesn't mean...
That doesn't completely invalidate, invalidate anything I ever say about this.
I do really like, though, that she is, like, trying to normalise and make it okay that
you can...
You know, you don't have to live together.
You can love each other and not live together.
You can move in together and be like, "Nah, this ain't fucking working," and then move
apart.
That's okay.
You can do that.
I do respect that.
And she does say quite a few things that are like that.
She kind of pushes, but a lot of these societal norms she's challenging are fucking damaging.
She's doing a good job of challenging them.
I just think she just takes it...
Her anger takes it too far, I think.
And crush it...
I feel fucking crushed just listening to her.
I feel fucking run over and fucking invalidated.
And I think she just...
She just...
This is the way things are, and fuck men, basically.
[silence]
