I just finished up having breakfast, lunch, brunch really.
Brunch with Jeremy at Good Folk.
Yeah, it was a really good meeting.
Yeah, I had brunch, had a big long chat, went for a walk.
It was quite an emotionally open talk as well, which felt really good.
I still felt quite self-conscious and I was hyper aware of what I thought was his discomfort,
but he also, it seemed to me like he was fairly, quite clearly uncomfortable, but at the same
time also wanted to talk about these things.
We were talking about a lot of stuff about relationships and start talking about feminism
and stuff like that, which is what I'm going to talk about here.
But I often feel like when they talk about it with a vulnerability hangover, I kind of
feel like that while I'm talking.
I think sometimes it feels like with Jeremy I'm very vulnerable and other times it feels
like he's not really open to it or I am reading more discomfort and that kind of closes me
off a bit or I close off a bit.
I have to be very aware of what's happening and probably should have an actual just frank
conversation with him about all of it, about how I'm feeling, how I feel he's feeling,
etc etc.
But yeah, that felt very, what that is, that felt very wholesome.
It was uncomfortable as all sorts of things are I guess.
It's definitely been uncomfortable.
I was reading a lot of discomfort in him at times, but he kept wanting to talk about it.
He kept asking questions and raising things of his.
It felt fairly mutual in a lot of ways.
I was very hyper aware of feeling like I was talking a lot and disclosing a lot.
But that's how it's going to feel.
It's not something I'm used to, it's something I'm uncomfortable with.
It's going to feel like that.
But I still did it anyway and I couldn't stop myself, which was really nice.
It was nice to hear some of Jeremy's things too, some of the struggles he is having a little
bit.
Obviously he's going quite, they're really happy I think, but they are as old as they
are, butting up against the problems of relationships.
And one of the big things we talked about was feminism and like, because a lot of things
he said were quite a few things that feminists talk about, like him not knowing very much
about interior decoration and similar things to what I have experienced with Holly.
Not knowing much about interior decoration and Lauren knowing a lot, Lauren being a lot
quicker at chores than he is, a lot more efficient.
Which you know, exactly the same thing happened with Holly and I.
I think the biggest one was Lauren's planning like everything to do with the, Lauren is
planning everything to do with the wedding and Jeremy's kind of like not really doing
much and he's starting to feel like he maybe should I think.
But mostly it's like that's kind of just, that's what the bride does, which I think
is kind of what the feminists are talking about.
And we kind of ended up talking about women doing more of the housework and the mental
load of organizing around, like knowing around the house what has to be done.
And I think he said something that resonated with me, which is that his problem is that
a lot of the time feminists are, it feels like they're ignoring the problems that men,
it's like you know, men have problems too.
It's like yes, those things that might be happening, but they're happening to men too
maybe in different ways, but they're still happening to men too.
Men still have their own problems.
I agree to a various extent, I don't.
I think there probably is more on women's plate to be honest, given societal expectations.
But yeah, and that really struck a chord with me is it like often, it did often feel like,
I absolutely accept most of these things are real problems and they are problematic and
I think things are unequal and things do need to change.
But I think the problem I had and I think why I often, I'm coming to realize I think,
aside from my values, why I often, wanting to see things from other people's point of
view and wanting other people to see things from other people's point of view, was I felt
like, I felt like the feminist stuff I heard, the feminist stuff that I heard and, I think
the feminist stuff I heard and the things that Holly often said to me, it felt like my
problems were being ignored.
Which there is some veracity to because, you know, women do live in a patriarchal system,
men are advantaged.
And it just feels like, but it's like it's very hard to heal here that you're advantaged
when you are fucking struggling to get through life.
When you are overwhelmed all the time.
I think that's the thing it's like, when you're fucking struggling to get by, it's pretty hard
to hear that you're advantaged.
When every day is almost a waking hell, it's pretty hard to fucking feel like you're to
hear that you're advantaged.
That feels like a real fucking kick in the teeth.
You know, and like the, it feels like sometimes feminists are, they are angry, they are very
angry and they are understandably, justifiably angry.
There's good reasons for that.
It's okay for them to be angry.
They probably should be angry.
They're allowed to be angry.
They have had to fucking deal with, women have had to fucking deal with so much bullshit.
And men don't listen a lot of the time.
So fucking it's pushing shit uphill.
But in the process of that, it does often feel like men's problems are ignored or seen
as not as important or like you have to put aside your problems and your pain and listen
to us because we're the disadvantaged ones.
Which there is also some veracity in.
You know, there is some value, like there is some, there is a bit of a point to that
but at the same time, that's a big fucking ask.
When every day feels like a fucking massive slog and you hate your life and you're being
fucking ground down and then somebody tells you they have it worse than you, you're advantaged,
stop, put aside that and listen to how you're feeling, how they're feeling and how it's
worse than yours and what needs to be done about it.
That can be a bit of a hard thing to hear.
I think that's maybe indicative of the stuff with, you know, and the stuff with, you know,
like different household differences and household tasks and mental load and emotional load.
And like any women talk up making these snide jokes about men sitting on the toilet in the
morning for 20 minutes on his phone on his throne while they have to deal with the kids.
That is an undeniably shit situation.
But maybe the man is so fucking over and that's not to say that the woman isn't a
woman, she probably just as if not more overwhelmed than the man and she like has to fucking push
through that shit because that's what she's been socialised to do.
She grinds herself down to stay with the kids while he's on the toilet kind of thing.
But that's not, that isn't necessarily the man being fucking lazy, that is the man desperate
for a fucking reprieve because he cannot fucking deal with anymore and the mother feels exactly
the same if not worse.
But when you're that fucked, it's like, then that's a really difficult situation.
That's like how do you force yourself to push yourself into that discomfort for your lover's
sake, for your wife's sake.
Maybe that is a problem between men and women, that's a larger systematic problem that life
is fucked and there is too much to do and there's far too many expectations and nowhere
near enough fucking resources to go around.
And yes, there's the point that those systems are patriarchal and were largely set up and
maintained by men and that is probably true.
But that's...
I guess men in the aggregate.
It's like this difficulty of moving between individuals and systems.
It's the fucking sorority paradox in some ways, so you know like, when does enough men become
a patriarchy?
And what does that mean for the individual man who's part of that patriarchy?
And I do think a lot of feminists trample over men and men's problems and issues and
complaints and the hard times and the hard issues that they're having.
And it may very well be the case that women are having more trouble.
That probably is the case.
And think that they have been disadvantaged compared to men and that does need to be equalised
and be fixed.
But that doesn't mean that men don't have problems and it's fucking hard to ask someone
to put aside all of the shit they're dealing with and listen to your worst shit.
Stop caring about their shit and listen to yours.
All of which just makes me fucking angrier about the state of our world.
Work and society is in the state that it is.
That this is happening.
It's not like it was necessarily ever better.
It's probably better now than it ever has been in a lot of ways.
It's infuriating and soul destroying and it's hard to accept that that's kind of the way
things are.
And there's not really a huge amount we can individually try to make a difference.
And it's an important thing to do and it's important for the world and also for ourselves.
But individually it's not going to change all that much.
You kind of just have to buckle up.
How much can you tolerate?
And it's like where do you find that line between what you can tolerate and what you
have to have to try and change or push through which then presents its own difficulties of
"Yeah, life is fucked."
I think part of why I'm feeling the way I'm feeling, relationship aside, relationship
wise aside, is that I am really, this is probably the first time in my life, it's been building
and kind of like percolating around the back of my head but not really being super conscious.
This is the part of my first time in my life where I'm really smacking up against basically
the impossibility of adulthood in my life.
I've hit a stage in my life where I now have to think about and deal with all of this shit
more than I have had in my life and it's utterly overwhelming and it's utterly soul destroying
and dispiriting and makes me feel completely alone and trapped and fucked.
And it's really hard because I just want to be the best person I can.
I just want to do the best I can by the people around me.
That's really not easy.
Life is not as easy as that.
