I think I'm actually really interested in the relationship between masculinity and emotions
and the place of emotions in our modern life.
And the damage, like thinking about John O saying "Don't cry at your own...
A man shouldn't cry at his own father's funeral."
That just... that whole idea of manhood and masculinity is so really damaging.
And there's a place for some part of that, I think.
But yeah, I think...
That kind of... that heritage we've received, which I think I'm very interested in the history
of ideas around emotions and rationality.
Or just emotions.
Emotionality, I think, is important.
And probably related in some way to the stuff about meaning I'm interested in.
But I think it's probably an avenue in for me to feminism.
Because that's not about... that's about not crushing emotions.
And I think that's something men need to learn to do.
Embracing emotions.
Yeah.
Don't know.
There's something there.
There's something...
I'm kind of interested in feminism.
I'm interested in the feminist thing.
I'm interested in the men's side.
Like, you know, where...
As Holly says, and she's right in pretty much...
I basically agree with her that feminism is a men's...
Like, things that feminism is erecting against are men's problems.
They're not women's problems.
They're not women's problems that women are having.
They're problems that men are enacting on women.
Although, there's probably some things that are women's problems.
And so much of that is to do with...
I think a lot of that has to do with ideas around emotionality.
And I'm really interested in looking at different views of masculinity and malehood.
Like the philosophy, I guess, of masculinity and femininity.
And what it means to be a good man.
Like the art of manliness, just without some of the...
Rather than a conservative traditional take.
More of a really questioning take.
Because there are definitely fucking issues.
There are absolutely fucking issues.
I don't disagree with that at all.
And a lot of them are because of men.
I do want to be somebody who tries to do things better and differently.
I want to be a good man.
But I just don't always accept that it's necessarily exactly what feminists are saying.
I'm never going to just straight up accept anything that anybody says.
I can't do that.
I try to listen, but I'm always going to question.
I can't do anything else.
Which means that sometimes I'm going to think that you're wrong.
Or that you're not thinking about it from a particular direction.
There's maybe another way you should be thinking about it.
You should be looking at it.
Because I always want to look at it from as many points of view as possible.
That's what I value so much.
It's exactly what Holly put on that card she bought for me.
The philosopher's pin.
It's exactly...
That made me feel so seen because that's exactly it.
That's what I am committed to.
A badge of respect for those who are interested in understanding the core of an issue and
in questioning whether the beliefs that others take for granted are really true.
Those who are committed to searching for ways to live with greater calm, tolerance and understanding.
Calm, tolerance and understanding.
That's it.
That's what I value.
I am committed to that.
And I can't be any other way.
So I'm never just going to straight up accept.
I'm always going to question.
I'm always going to try and look at things from multiple points of view.
And that pisses Holly off sometimes.
That pisses people off sometimes.
The hard thing is to balance also listening to that person's point of view.
Just because that person has that point of view doesn't mean it's wrong.
And their point of view should be... and their emotions and their feelings and their experience
should be respected and honored.
It's just that.
And I need to learn how to do that.
Because I do believe that.
I just...
I need to try and make that... learn how to make that person feel heard.
Which I guess comes down to using language, like trying as best as I can to listen.
The thing I get is I often react in a way that's like...
I arc up inside and I'm like "Well, that's not necessarily the case."
Before really listening to them.
Before making them feel heard.
And I need to learn how to do that.
To really listen first and make them feel heard.
And then respect their experiences and their feelings and their emotions.
And then be like "But...
I hear all that blah blah blah blah blah."
Really make them feel heard.
And really listen.
And then afterwards be like "Uh-huh.
But also have you heard about it from this point of view?"
That's what I don't do and that's what pisses Holly off.
And I really value that too.
I really value...
This is...
I'm doing this on the end of that philosophy thing.
This probably should have been its own journal.
But anyway.
I really value that.
That idea of doing that.
That's important to me as well.
Trying to hear people and listen to people and understand people and respect them and
their feelings and their experiences and their emotions.
