Oh boy, that episode was a real fucking kick in the teeth.
Some doom and gloom shit.
I knew things were bad, basically, but... and I basically knew everything he was talking
about but the way he was talking about and the way he brought it all together...
Fuck.
We are in for some bad shit.
It definitely makes my feelings of hopelessness feel quite valid.
And you know, anybody who tells me to just shut up and get a job can get fucked, basically.
It also made me realise how much of my life is spent.
He talks about anaesthesia, like, he kind of brings together a few things from this
episode and the last one about Guy Debord and the Society of the Spectacle and he talks
about the Panopticon and Foucault talking about that and Jeremy Bentham's stuff and
just a lot of different stuff, brings it all together and uses it to talk about how we
are basically controlled by society and it's easy to extrapolate it from there to fucking
capitalism and capitalist system and all that kind of shit.
Talks about reason and rationality and intelligence and our history in the West of thinking that
people who are more intelligent, of justifying things through intelligence, that those who
are more intelligent have more right to lead or to make decisions on behalf of others.
I mean that's kind of built into the whole relationship between parents and children,
although that's definitely a universal thing, which then leads on to, well, if AI is more
intelligent than us then of course we're going to be scared about it if we have a history
of panning over power and control to greater intelligences.
But it was also like, yeah, it made me realise how much of my life is spent in anesthesia
and he talks about how this anesthesia is used to control, it's hard because I don't
want to make it sound like the Illuminati controlling us all, but it's like this and
it may not be the end goal, the goals of any person or any corporate group, but it is like,
it's hard to talk about goals and systems.
Like systems, do systems have, can systems have goals?
Systems have objectives or like things that, auto poetic systems have things that keep
them going, that they are incentivised to keep going.
System is an auto poetic system and it has things that are incentivised, it is incentivised
to create certain conditions to enable itself to continue.
And one part of that, and you know, he doesn't know about capitalism, but you know, the state
of surveillance capitalism, the state of the world we are in, it is, fucking out of three,
it is incentivised to keep people anaesthetised and keep people anaesthetised, keep people
overwhelmed, distracted and anaesthetised, overwhelmed, distracted, you know, unable
to, he talks about how, he talks about if we can talk about EQ and IQ, emotional quotient
and intelligence quotient, why can't we talk about freedom quotient, you know, the three
things we would need for freedom, the things we would typically, there is definitely no
consensus but the things, a lot of the time the things that come up as needed for freedom
are the ability to generate choices and options, the ability to choose between those options
and the ability to action those options and a way to control people, he talks about the
Pnopticon and how, you know, a way to make a stronger society or a more efficient society
is also to control people through basically, yeah, norms, getting people to internalise
things, and, fuck, I forgot what he was talking about, yeah, it's basically to take away their
freedom and then he goes on to basically talk about the ways in which the system we are
in, particularly getting worse and worse with social media and algorithms and now even more
so increasingly with generative AI and the knowledge gaps between, and the increasing
amount of power that corporations have and the knowledge gap between us and them, we
are losing, our freedom is consistently being reduced, you know, and the system is consistently
taking like, eating away at our freedom to make choices, our freedom to action those,
to generate choices and our freedom to action those choices is keeping us anesthetised,
distracted, all of that shit, you know, just keep us clicking and buying and it just struck
me how much of my life is spent doing those exact things, how much of my life is spent
in this almost fucking huge state of like bouncing between these interests, you know,
3D printing and how much time anguishing over jobs and no wonder I feel stuck and no wonder
I feel life feels so hollow and pointless and shallow and distracted and confused and
lost and floaty because it fucking is all of those things and that's baked into the
system I live in, you know, I'm wading through that bullshit every day of my life and every
part of my body, my being is screaming against it and I can't pull myself out of that mud,
you know, and the job situation is part of that, my hobbies are part of that, all of
this just makes it, it just shows me how important the stuff I'm so passionate and interested
in with philosophy and I don't know, some drive I have there that's underneath all of
that stuff, how important all of that is and how it transcends, how much it transcends
the, I'm sorry, I don't want to sound elitist or haughty, I don't know what the term I'm
looking for is but how much the things, how important the things I'm interested in and
passionate about are, you know, the things that underlie that and how much that transcends
the vulgarity of work and career, it's so much more important than that. How little
in the green scheme of things, how little importance that stuff actually has despite
it being the fucking entire, all anybody ever talks about, all I can fucking think about,
all that anybody spends their life focusing on and it's just this fucking nothing, this
absolute nothing and yet I still need to live, I still need to operate within that system
and that system requires me to work and have a career and fend for myself and feed myself
and all of those things and has co-opted my desires to want to do those things, you know,
to want to get money and I can't break out of that. I'm watching myself being dragged
down into this system and just, you know, it makes me sympathise with Holly so fucking
much because she is fighting the exact same thing and burdened in more ways because she
also can't just fucking do the thing. Fuck. It in some ways makes me want to like be
with her and fight together for the life we want where we don't have to fight through
that shit together but I still have this intense feeling of needing her, of knowing that I
can rely on her to work. I guess that's because I have all these competing drives and desires,
I have this but then there's also the internalised feeling from society of wanting money and
wanting things, wanting to escape all of this by getting money and saving because it's the
only way out I can see. It's the only way out of the matrix. How do you fight that?
I wish I could talk to Holly about all of this. It's as bad as I'm feeling about it
and as lost and floaty and hopeless as I feel, it also shows to me just how important it
is for me to not be working fucking full time at the moment. Is that I will just be stuck
in that trap. If I at all want to fucking pull myself out of this mud, out of this trap,
out of this fucking bullshit system, I need the mental space to, I don't know what I need
to be doing but I need the time and mental space to do it and I can't do that while working
full time unless the full time work is doing that but how the fuck am I going to get paid
to do that on a full time basis? It's part of why I feel so conflicted about my hobbies.
I just want to do something I love and I'm so drawn into it. It's the thing I'm naturally
drawn into is to gravitate towards 40k and 40k RPGs and thinking about those things and
I'm trying to think about writing my own, it's what I gravitate towards and doing games but
it's like that's just part of the system. I'm not pulling myself out of the system by doing
that. So I then also feel so fucking bad. There's this part of me that's screaming at
me to not do that and to do my philosophy because that feels like the thing that's going
to save me. That feels like the actually important thing but I can never seem to love it quite
as much. It's never as easy. I don't just fall into it like I do with this, with the
things I'm falling into at the moment which I am really enjoying but they feel like anaesthetic
and I'm going to go home and do them tonight and enjoy it but it feels like anaesthetic.
It feels like there's some part of me that's screaming inside to do the hard work. But
then that hard work just makes it harder and harder for me to live with the reality I'm
in because I'm gaining more and more knowledge about how fucked it all is without gaining
any insight into how to pull myself out of it. It makes it so much harder to live because
I'm less and less ignorant unless I'm paying more and more attention to the way things
are and it makes life so fucking hard, almost unbearable. But at the same time, even when
I wasn't as aware of those things, there was a part of me that was aware of how fucking
wrong everything is. It's like being in the matrix and well and truly being in the matrix
but seeing the little signs that things are wrong. God, it's so fucking hard. What do
I do? Philosophy is my balm, although it's also my... it's also my balm and my therapy
but it's also my... it's also painful but more than anything it is my way out. That's
why I care about it so much. That's why I'm so passionate about it because on top of just
being utterly fascinated by it, it's like an existential need. It's my way out. It's my
path, it's my light at the end of the tunnel leading me out of this bullshit. I need it.
I need it more than anything and that's why I can't feel bad about diving into it at the
expense of other things like reading about relationships or pleasuring Holly or reading
into feminism like Holly wanted me to. Although, to be honest, reading into feminism is in some
ways part of seeing that light out because that's part of the baked in system. It is a
patriarchal system. But on the other side of things, that fucking hardcore feminism is
also... and the rage and the internet... the polarization and the screaming and the hate
and the rage is just part of that system now too. It's part of the distraction. It's part
of the spectacle. It feels like I've had a moment of lucidity and I know I'm going to
sink back below the waves and so much of my life is spent below the waves in this fugue
state of feeling all these urges and these feelings of fear and horror and alienation
and intimations of all of this stuff going on but never quite being able to notice, only
noticing the barest edges of it. Like sitting in a room with a fucking eldritch monstrosity
only just able to notice that there's something wrong in the room. So much of my life is spent
in that state and just kind of bumbling around trying to get out but unable what to do and
still bouncing between all these different that but at the same time my need for entertainment
and my need for relationship and my need to conform to the system and feed myself and
just this constant like painful confused blind half blind stumbling as I try to deal with
this underlying pain. Deal with this awareness that something is so fucking wrong that shines
through the fucking darkness, the blindness but still being mostly blind and still fucking
stumbling and fumbling everywhere. My problem is the news and influencers and people like
um, all these people are just screaming online like Clementine Ford. They are part of that
now. They're screaming against it but they're also a part of it. You know? They are another
ideology in that mix. And they don't have a clear picture either. Nobody does. Nothing
is clear. There is no clear pictures. And I can't trust, you can't trust anything. It
feels like everything is fucking shifting shadows and nothing you can hold onto. Nothing
you can really trust. Nothing that has a foundation. It's horrifying.
