So I'm listening to episode 186 at the moment of Philosophize This.
And they said he's been talking about something that clarified a little bit for me, my feelings
about work and full-time work and all that kind of stuff.
And why there has to be more to life than that and why it's...
Why I don't want to spend my life just doing that and why that's not good enough.
And it's an episode about generative AI.
Yeah, I probably need to close the windows.
Yeah, he's talking about generative AI and that people, you know, can't quite remember
some of the things he said, but they really hit home as to the lie, the idea, like the
false idea that life should be about work.
I don't know, my thoughts are a bit scattered now, but I might have to listen to that episode
again.
Yeah, I might have to be able to get these thoughts out.
But basically it was further evidence to me that what I want to do, the ways I want to
live my life of not focusing just on work and also the problems Holly has, like the ways
I want to live and the ways Holly wants to live and the problems she has with work and
the problems I have with work are all fucking legitimate, basically.
But I need to listen to that thing again a bit.
I think it's basically that we've been sold this idea that, you know, we're responsible
for working in order to contribute to society, the society that's looking after us.
It gives us everything.
And we are responsible.
And if we just work hard, we'll get everything we want, we'll make it, and we'll be looked
after and all that kind of stuff.
And that's, we'll get a comfortable retirement.
None of that is the fucking case.
Like, you know, with the rise of AI, there's a pretty good chance that I will be out of
– most people in my age group will be out of a job in their 40s and 50s kind of thing.
And there's not going to be any support.
So this whole idea of fucking grinding your life away for some corporate overlord to secure
yourself, you know, have a comfortable life and secure yourself a nice retirement and
contribute back to society for everything it's giving you is, I'm sorry, fucking bullshit.
And I think a lot of people are waking up to that.
And that just means he's becoming more and more the case with time, basically.
But, yeah, I need to go back and listen to that episode a bit more to really recall what
I was thinking of.
It does remind me of my sympathy for Holly's problems and her struggles with work.
And, like, I do understand, I do sympathise.
That's the problem.
It's just that I also seem to need her to be able to work for some reason, even though
I understand how the struggle she's having and why she struggles and how she struggles
in a bunch of ways, because I feel much the same.
And I can, I don't know, I just never seem to be able to, when she's talking about it,
all I seem to be able to feel is annoyance rather than sympathy and empathy and recognition
and be able to talk about myself and how I feel about it.
That episode also confirmed for me the importance of philosophy and its place in questioning
these things and its place in my life in allowing me, giving me the tools to question those
things, that given way of doing things.
