It's a bit further along, episode 27 of Awakening from the Meaning Crisis. He talks about how
the stuff about categories, some of the stuff about categories and how they don't really
share. There's nothing that, for most things, there's no set of necessary and sufficient
conditions that is all and only those things in that category have. A lot of the stuff
I'm interested in about categories, that actually comes from Occam and nominalism. That's actually
what Occam argued. Occam of something. Occam? I can't remember what his name is. It's like
a word. I should look into that because I'm deeply interested in that. He's talking about
this through the lens of essentialism and the essentialism heuristic that we have, that
we treat categories as if they have an essence. When in fact, many categories, if not most
categories, and I'm in some way a little bit sceptical about whether even the ones that
are supposedly, that do have an essence, like triangles, are categories still. Maybe we
just haven't thought about it enough to work out the ways in which even those things fall
apart. But, yeah, that's an important thing. I can absolutely see that we do indeed treat
categories as if they, that's where so many of our gender problems are coming from, that
we treat things as if they have an essence. It's what David Chapman talks about and pushes
back against constantly, that we treat categories as if they have an essence, when in fact they're
this murky, fuzzy, fizzy fucking blob stuff. But just like, as JV's saying here, just like
we need heuristics to deal with, it's another example of the same thing, we need heuristics
to deal with the, we are necessarily biased creatures, and we always will be, and the
essentialism bias, the ways in which we treat categories as if they have essential properties
and essences, we need to be able to do that because it allows us to, it makes us look
for essences which allows us to generalise and make reliable, more reliable predictions.
I think this is an important part, it's like that thing of, maybe they don't, when you
really dive into it, a lot of categories don't have essences, but this is the reasonableness
side of things that David Chapman talks about. When you really analyse things and dive deep,
a lot of categories don't have essences, but they do have enough similarity between them
in the vast majority of contexts that it's still really, really useful and important
to do that. Like, woman might not have an essence potentially, but that doesn't mean
that in the vast majority of cases there isn't a very clear, very, very clear, very, very
common set of qualities that appear together often enough that is useful in most contexts
that the category of woman is, or man, is still highly, highly useful. However, we treat
it, because of the essentialism bias, we treat it as sacrosanct and as essential, which leads
to things like transgender people falling through the cracks. Where do they fall? What
are they? Maybe our ideas around these things are... and then the kindness and empathy comes
in and understanding complexity comes in and understanding that we can and should use those
categories because they're necessary and important for us and they're useful to the vast majority
of the time, but they aren't always going to work and there are people who are going
to fall through and people's lives will be affected by that because they will fall through
the cracks. And if we treat it as an essential category that has essential features and that
that's the only category, if we simplify and make it less... and insist on simplifying
in the search of certainty to understand the world, we are going to shave off, shave people
off and, you know, I don't think we should be doing that. Jayden would probably say fuck
them. Maybe not, but there is definitely people out there who would say, well, fuck it, let's
just make the world more simple and get rid of these people. But that's engineering the
world to be more simple in order to meet our standards rather than meeting the world where
it is at the complexity it is actually... and that is always going to happen and always
going to keep happening. So it's this tension between simplifying things and using that.
Categorisation is simplifying things. A category is a simplification because in reality everything
is its own completely... depending on what you're looking at, depending on what's relevant,
everything is its own unique instance. Because there are always ways in which things will
fall outside of their categories. There will always be women who have masculine traits,
etc etc. And that again goes back to nominalism and Wittgenstein and all that kind of stuff,
and family resemblances and the use and importance of family resemblances. But, yeah, we have
to constantly ride this tension between simplifying, which is necessary, and complexifying, which
is also kind of necessary. But we all tend to, I think, tend towards simplification.
[sips]
