um, listening to my previous voice recording about, um, what was it about?
Anyway, at about seven minutes of my previous recording just before this, I was talking
about how, um, how do we use, um, deductive logic because we do use it. If it works in
terms of certainty and certainty is impossible because to have certainty you'd have to search
the entire search space and the search space is always combinatorially large, how do we
actually use deductive logic because we do? And then I said because, like, we do that
by, um, walking pretty hard at the moment, we do that by, um, fucking doing the thing.
We do that by assuming that A and B are true, which means that we are necessarily shrinking
the problem space. We are creating a, you know, small world, um, model, whatever the
fuck it's called, tiny world model. I think I'm mixing it up with small world networks.
I think it's actually a different thing. Closed world, maybe? Something like that. Um, in
order to do that, um, I actually can't remember what the point of this was because I was going
to say something about, um, from there I was going to say something about bringing that
back to that we still need to rely, that we do rely, have to rely on heuristics and that's
okay. That's important. Yeah, right, that's it. Um, so I said we're not, um, we don't
work in terms of certainty. We can't be sure that A and B, you know, in the Socrates' mortal
thing, we cannot be certain that A and B are true. But we can be pretty fucking sure based
on it, on what seems, here's the word, reasonable. And this comes back to the reasonableness.
I don't know if I should entirely equate with, um, David Chapman's reasonableness, reasonableness,
um, but, you know, we, you know, the point needs to be stressed and I'm not at all saying
that, you know, how every day is, is bad. We should respect and rely on reasonableness.
I think it needs to be a better term for it. Um, we should rely and respect, rely and,
rely on it and respect it. Because we do rely on it and it works, that's the thing, that's
what, you know, John Bovacky says. You intelligently ignore a lot of stuff and most of the time
it works. That's the thing, most of the time it works. It is clearly perfectly fucking,
not just adequate, it's fucking, it's actually miraculous. Let's be honest, it's not fucking
okay. It's actually fucking miraculous. The fact that you are able to navigate this extremely
complex environment that we exist, that we don't think of as exist, it's just obvious
as to what we should do most of the time. Reasonable is actually miraculous. I think
that's an important point that needs to be stressed as part of it and it's something
I've not included in my set of cards, which is the importance of reasonable. That, you
know, what we deal with most of the time because of infinite complexity, which isn't, this
is another link in the channel, because of infinite complexity and because of, this is
actually a really important one because people probably get defensive, so you're just a sceptic.
Because of combinatorial explosion we have to use heuristics. Because of that we are
always going to be biased. But that way of doing things is not only, it's necessary,
like John Viveki's whole catchphrase, it's necessary but also it's actually fucking incredible.
It actually does a really fucking good job the vast majority of the time. It's actually
only, we think, we think it's maybe not that good and that we should be relying on rationality,
which it connects to David Chapman's point about reasonable. And I'm not having an entirely
been able to explicate that link yet, I'd like to. But, yeah, we don't. We might think
that our everyday is shit and that we should be relying on rationality because we see where
rationality works well, but what we're not seeing there is that that is a tiny, tiny
fucking subset of what we do. For every moment that you're having to apply rationality to
a complex to a high problem there are many, many, many, many, like millions if not billions
of moments where you are getting by perfectly. Like, you are navigating a sea of almost infinite
complexity constantly and you do it so well that you don't even notice. That's his whole,
that's John Viveki's whole point, you know. Every step of picking up, just picking up
a cup is combinatorially explosive and you manage to navigate that so well that you don't
even notice how good you are. That's the thing, so much of what we do we are actually fucking,
it is incredible and miraculous when you really stop to think about it but we just go through
our lives just doing it. Which means we should not in any way, shape or form denigrate reasonability.
In fact we should fucking, not even respect it, we should venerate it to be honest. I
actually think it is in fact near miraculous. If there is anything that's incredible it's
that we can do that and arguably, probably everything else that's living can do the same
thing. Like how incredible, how incredible is life that it can do that? Which directly
ties to John Viveki's, the very things that make you, so like the first part of that,
the very things that make you adaptively intelligent. You are adaptively, you are incredibly adaptively
intelligent. You are astronomically, you are so adaptively intelligent that these super
computers that we, that we, that we have no idea how to, well actually we do make, yeah,
robots move now but it's a vastly difficult problem, it was a vastly difficult problem
to solve. That's why we don't, arguably I think probably why we don't have fucking,
part of why we don't have self driving cars everywhere. Right, but then the other side,
which is that. So you are actually incredible, every day of your life you are actually fucking
miraculous. But the price you pay for that is that you also, so that's the trifecta,
it's the pyramid. Point at the top is that the universe is infinitely complex and then
there's the two sides. Next step down, the two bottom angles of the triangle. You are
adaptively intelligent, you are incredible, you are miraculous. But the other side of
that is that those same things also make you self-destructive, self-deceptive, prone to
bias. It's like pretty early up prone to biases and problems which then leads to so many of
our problems, racism, all of that, everything that frustrates the fuck out of me. That's
part of what it is to be human, it's only, it cannot be any other way. That's the start.
And you can work out from there. So from there we have our, from there we have the, I guess
the ethical outcomes of that. I'm not quite sure where it goes from there to the process
stuff and the dynamic stuff. Sorry, the dynamic process and the unity of opposites, the tension
between opposites stuff. I feel like there is very much a strong link there, but I'm
not quite sure what it is.
