So I've just been listening to the 30 minute... I don't know exactly which one it is, it's
the 30 minute... it's not one of my recordings, it's the last folder A recording I did that's
about 30 minutes long where I'm talking about Holly and my realizations, instead of talking
about what I was thinking about in the shower and Goodreads and stuff and it's my realizations
around that Holly needs to be the way she is. She needs to be able to stand up for herself
and her history has been a history of being squashed and stood on and minimized and because
of that her growth and her progress is a process of stepping into her anger, stepping into
her power I guess, taking things, pushing hard the other way, pushing the boundaries
back the other way hard and it occurred to me, I think maybe that's the same, it's kind
of the same thing playing out for women on a larger scale. I don't want to say women
as a whole but in some ways yeah maybe it was, like a lot of the gender relationship
stuff we're struggling with at the moment as a society. Maybe Holly and I was kind of
a microcosm of that. Like, you know women as a, I don't like this categorization but
it has utility sometimes. Women as a class, women as a group, women as a group have had
a history of being minimized, crushed, stood on etc etc. Well at least that's what they
argue, that's what feminists argue and I think there's pretty fucking good evidence for that.
It's not, it's always more complex and nuanced than that but yeah I think, I feel like, I
feel like it's almost like in the same way that Holly is trying to grow from her past,
in the same way that Holly is trying to grow from her past, the past she's had of abuse
and minimization and being stood on and all those things. Women as a group are trying
to grow from their past of much the same thing basically. So it's maybe in some ways the same
kind of struggle. We had an hour relationship playing out on a societal scale, like although
to be honest I think in a lot of ways the push back from men is about a disruption of the
way things, pushing back against disruption in the way things are. But it's like women,
I think, I think there is an oversimplification. There is a, there is a prevalence to, I think
there is a, there is a prevalence to oversimplification and to shaving off nuance in a lot of the
discourse, feminist discourse I see. It does mean a lot if it's like that but, I think
it's, it definitely, I might have to stop talking in a second. I definitely do, particularly
when it comes to men, there seems like a real loss of, oversimplification and a loss of
nuance from women and feminist discourse, particularly around men and men's problems.
Of course there's a lot of the same back the other way and it feels like kind of the same
thing as Holly. Like that's in some ways maybe women pushing in those directions because
they are, they, as a group they need to, to have the growth that they need to have. And
that's the pattern I can see. It doesn't mean it's a real pattern, it might mean there's
little bits of it that are somewhat accurate. We should be able to see that in the next
session. Which means that it's difficult for me though because just like in my relationship
with Holly, that's not what I'm looking for. I'm not looking for that in a partner. And
that's difficult because massive over generalisation but women as a group may be going through
that stage. You know, necessarily, like they maybe need to go through that stage. And that
should be, they're allowed, they need to be able to do that. They're allowed to do that.
You know, women leaving their partners and turning the fuck off and not getting married
and all those things. I think that's a reaction against, I think that's a reaction against
millennia of basically being trade goods. Which is again, I know of a simplification,
but it's a way of looking at things. That's the important part. All of these things are
a bit accurate to some degree. The problem comes when we treat, we treat these, I don't
know, I don't know the way to, these views, these viewpoints as, treat these viewpoints
as reality. As the whole of reality. That's, that's, we crystallise them and lock onto
them. Like, you know, we can't see things being any other way. Hardcore feminists.
Like Holly, just, she sees men as being largely a problem. It's not a problem, but she doesn't
trust most men. And there's elements of truth in any, probably almost any viewpoint we could
take in any analysis. But they should be seen as tools. As tools we can use to, to
get a view. Because because the view, because the viewpoint we have is always, always, always
necessarily restricted. We can only ever look through, well maybe we can look through multiple
little labels. Basically we're always looking through, not necessarily a really good analogy,
we're always looking through different, through windows onto the world. We're always inside
a box, although this is kind of perpetuating the whole out of touch with reality thing,
the post-Kantian out of touch with reality thing. But in some ways we are always looking
through a window onto the world. And that window is always looking through a window
and that window is always necessarily going to be, you know, a microscope is the best
way to, the best analogy. She must, wow, I don't know. No. Let's just start with the
window. You, you are, we are always necessarily because of probably much the same reasons
as that, is that infinite complexity and the heuristic stuff that John Voeghe talks about.
We are always looking through the world at, looking at the world through a window, which
is highlighting, always going to highlight, you know, each, each, because it's a window,
the vast majority of the world are right outside of that window is being sliced off. The vast
majority of the world outside that window is being sliced off. But, but we, we gain
something from that view through the window. Maybe the window has highlighted certain things
about the world. We are, we are seeing reality. But we are seeing a piece of reality and it's
probably a bit blurry. Yeah. I'm not entirely comfortable, like, happy with that because
that does, that is kind of part of that legacy of being separated from the world and we're
not. There needs to be a world for us to be in it. But, yes, so each, I think we have
a tendency to get locked onto one, one window, or maybe a window, or a window that is locked
onto one window, or maybe, you know, one small group of windows. Let's just say one window,
just for the simplicity of the reality we're probably, like David Chapman talks about,
actually probably throughout, even throughout our day, it's stances taking different viewpoints
and like switching between them without even really noticing. So that's not really, but
we do have a tendency to, I think, have like, you know, maybe one very large primary window
that we get. Let's just say we get stuck looking out one window for most of our, for a large
portion of our lives and we come to think that that view through the window is reality.
It is what exists and things can't be any different. But the, the, I think what we need to be striving
for is understanding that that is actually just a view through a window. And you are
seeing reality, you are still seeing through a window, you're still seeing reality out
there. Um, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so,
you're still seeing reality. But, you see, you are in touch with it, you are seeing,
in some ways seeing things the way they are, but you're probably only seeing a small portion
of it. And, and, and you might have a view looking through that window that nobody else
does or that you can't, you can't see things looking through under window, other windows
that you can see through this window. But we need to learn how to step away from the
window, understand that it is just a window, it's not, it's not the totality of reality,
it is just a window. It's just one of many. And we need to learn how to step away from
the window and look through others, piece of click. Because every window has, has some
little piece of the world in it that the other windows don't. Which means that, you know,
when we're looking through the feminist window, we're seeing the world in a certain way, colors
the world in certain ways, and we do, we do see things that are in some ways probably
there that we might not see looking through under windows. Things like patriarchy, things
like, I think, but it can be, you know, but then you look through the traditional values
window, things like, so you look through the feminist window and you see patriarchy and
women being basically traded as, being chattel and basically treated as trade goods and traded
around through marriages. And then, but, and that is valuable, and now we need to learn
that it's valuable and necessary and real. But then we also look through the traditional
values window, the traditional family values window and maybe see, you know, a stable,
a stable, a stable household, probably actually loving relationships in some ways. And that
has value too, and that is also real. And different people guided by their, their culture and
their upbringing and their ideologies and all those things tend towards different windows.
A lot of men don't look through the feminist window at all. And the thing is, windows are
also often shaped in certain ways so that they become shaped. They may be harder to see through.
If you haven't had experience seeing through them before, they're very different to your
window, to your little hole. You may have to torch yourself into some very fucking uncomfortable
positions to see through that window. And it's going to look weird and be uncomfortable
and challenge the fuck out of you. But it's still worth doing. But you also, at the same
time, we have to have empathy that we're not immediately going to be able to see through
that window. Like, if you spent your whole life looking through a window, the view through
another is just going to be so alien that you literally won't be able to see through it.
Like you could be shoved, have your face shoved into it, and it won't make any sense to you.
And you'll rebel against it. And a lot of what we're doing at the moment is shoving
each other's faces into our own windows. You'll be like, this is my view of the world, look
at this, it's right. Trying to hold each other's faces up against our own windows. This is
a fucking good analogy. Yeah. And this in a lot of ways links to what David Chapman's
talking about with basically, this is basically meta-rationality applied beyond rational systems.
It's having a lot of hold on things and understanding that it's that ironic, it's the fucking meta-sincere
irony. It's knowing that it's being able to hold two different viewpoints. And you probably
only kind of really look through them one at a time, but you do have to. And you can use
them. And you can see the value in them. You don't just get wrapped up in one, because one
viewpoint is never going to see the whole world. Fuck. More insight. God damn it. I
seem to keep wanting to bring it back to the personal as well. They're really individual
and personal. And in some ways ethical. This idea of seeing things as tools rather than
as absolute as ways of being, ways of seeing the world that can be taken off and changed
in multiple viewpoints that you can look through, multiple tool sets that you can pick up, which
all have their own purpose and value. That's an important thing to add to my list of things.
And also noting, just on a, I guess, make it more real but also a personal level, I have
this same reaction when my face is held up to somebody else's. When somebody else holds
their window up to my face, I recoil. When I see the fairly new agey woo-woo-woo kind
of viewpoint, I react. Feminism with holy made me react. So I understand absolutely
like you are holding onto your, holding onto dear life, holding onto dear life to this
thing that is your only way of being in touch with the world. When everything is this, everything
is this incredibly chaotic complex mess that reality is, this infinitely complex mess that
reality is, we need something, we need to hold onto our windows tightly, basically,
because they're the only thing that makes sense of it. It's also important to note that
in doing this, in saying that we should, here's my viewpoint and we should do this, I am also
holding other people's faces up to the viewpoint, to my window. And people are going to, and
that's okay, I guess, because we're also all around to present, all allowed to present
our own windows to others. It's just maybe a case of inviting other people to look through
your window rather than shoving it into their face.
[Music]
