Episode 57 of This Changes Everything, the podcast, and this episode's about grief, and
they're talking about, right now they're talking about, the question was, how do I get over
the grief and guilt around feeling like I ruined a fantastic relationship because of
trust issues, and they're basically talking about forgiveness, self-forgiveness, and how
you did the best you could in the situation you were in, the resources you had, the knowledge
you had, that you're a flawed, imperfect being. It's easy to say, "No, I didn't do the best
I could. I could have done better." But you didn't, is what Jeff says. You didn't do that.
It means you probably did do the best you could. You didn't make that decision because
you probably couldn't at the time because you're not taking into account the situation
you were in because you're not in that situation right now. All of this actually connects straight
back to the burgeoning worldview stuff I was talking about last night about that you are
a miraculous thing. We are all incredibly fucking miraculous. We're incredibly flawed, and we're
all just doing the best we can with what we've got, basically. We are all inherently flawed
because we have to be able to navigate this ridiculous thing that we exist in, this ridiculous
existence that we inhabit, because it is so incredibly everything. It's so incredibly
complex and also horrifying and also beautiful and all of those things. Yeah. Yeah, this
is just kind of further reinforcement for that, that this worldview I have of nobody's
-- which kind of leads back into the nobody's stupid stuff as well. Nobody's stupid. You're
just -- you're a flawed creature doing the best you can with what you've got. And what
you've got is actually in a lot of ways fucking incredible, like almost miraculous when we
really stop and look at it and think about it. The fact that you are able to navigate
this highly, highly complex world and also do all the things we do is near fucking miraculous.
And pretty much everybody is just doing the best they can in the situations they have
found themselves in may be untenable. And more of this idea that -- that's what they're
talking about is more of this idea as well that, you know, where life's fucking hard.
Life is fucking hard for everybody. And we have to -- we have to understand that of ourselves
and of other people. We have to forgive ourselves and other people. Because that's unavoidable.
That aspect of existence is just unavoidable. Like we will always -- I don't know. I keep
having these moments of insight while listening to it and then when I go to talk about it,
it's kind of already fading. That's why also the growth stuff is important like this. And
the understanding that -- understanding that pain and suffering and that are just those
things unnecessary. Like they are unavoidable and they're also often the precursor to growth
and change. And we are basically a process of complexification and growth and adaptation.
What we are at our core and what our existence is is a process of growth and adaptation.
And that's often through strife and conflict and periods of pain and yeah, some not fun
shit. And when you're in that, it feels fucking awful. It really does feel shit-house. But
it often is part of what you need to go through to adapt and change and grow. And we need
to do that because life is existences. We are a process of self-transcendence, of self-complexification
and self-transcendence. Which is all very Nietzschean and all that kind of stuff. It's what Jeff
says is like -- oh boy, such a nice place to sit. Big road, I've got to do this first.
The point Jeff is making is that you did do the best you could because you're not taking
into account all the ways in which you were falling apart, you were panicked, you were
anxious, all of those things. You were triggered. And basically you just did the best you could
in the situation you were in to survive. Which is basically like your childhood. You did
the best you could with what you had in the situation you were in to survive. And look
how adaptive you were. And that's the thing. Those behaviours were adaptive. They got you
through. They are you doing the best you can with what you've got. With the situation you're
in. You are trying. And you just -- we just -- life is difficult. You are flawed. Life
is difficult. Life is incredibly complex. And you are always trying to adapt and fit
yourself to your environment. And that's what you had to do to do that. And the ways in
which you let your partner down, they were part -- they're part of that. And it hurts.
But those things happen because you haven't -- the ways in which you were adaptive don't
work together, basically. And all of this so closely cleaves to what John Viveki talks
about with self-transcendence and the agent arena relationship and all of that. All directly
links together. And it's just about doing -- knowing these things, learning these things
about ourselves and doing the best we can. You know, doing the best -- learning that
this is the way you react. Doing the best you can to not react to those ways or to grow
par through those things. Which isn't going to happen immediately and you're going to
regret and you're going to make mistakes. Those are things that are going to happen
because that's what life is. It's unavoidable. And life is largely habit. And you have set
habits around things. Your habits around those things are set so they will reassert themselves.
There's another point I was coming in to make here but I can't remember what it was, to
be honest. Yeah, actually that's the other thing. But at the same time, it's interesting
because we have to find this balance between -- I think we should treat each other with
empathy. Everybody even -- through this understanding that we are all flawed, that life is incredibly
difficult, we're all just trying to do the best we can. We should try to have -- constantly
try to have empathy and understanding for others and not be like, "Well, they're just
a piece of shit." And just write them off. We should try to understand that, no, they
are, again, trying to do -- they're just trying to do the best they can. However, what they
are doing, what they have, the ways they act, the best they can do, still impacts you. And
you also have a duty to yourself, to protect yourself and respect yourself. And that's
quite a difficult balance to find. But it's that like having empathy while also understanding
that the Nazis are still human and they're still -- they're not evil. The Nazis were
human beings. And understand -- but having empathy for them but at the same time still
defending yourself and you're not accepting their behaviour, you're not writing it off,
you're not making excuses for it, you're not accepting it, you're not letting them do it
to you. You are -- you still have to stand up for yourself. And that may mean fighting
and killing them. It's just -- yeah. That's a very complex and very difficult balance to
strike, I think. It's pretty hard to have empathy for someone when they're treating you
like shit or they've got a gun to your head. It's pretty hard to have empathy for someone
when they have a fucking gun to your head, basically. Because your instincts are to bite
and kick and scream to save yourself. You're in survival mode and that's as it should be.
Because you are trying to survive there. And we are all just trying to survive in this
fucking ridiculous existence we find ourselves in. Yeah, I think that's also quite a philosophically
interesting point of this. How do we strike that balance? Because there will be people
when I say shit like this will be like, "Well, you're just making excuses for Nazis." How
do we strike that balance of empathy and also self-respect and defending oneself and standing
up for oneself and not being trampled -- not letting yourself be trampled on and not letting
yourself be hurt and killed? Because you do also have to do that. That's also part of
what it is to be a human being. That's self-love and boundaries and all those things. And that's
a very, very difficult -- again, it's the tension of opposites. You're both trying to balance
and navigate this tension between having empathy for others, radical empathy and understanding
people and their difficulties while also not allowing them to trample you, which is a difficult
balance to find. And that's because you are navigating these two poles. So yeah, that's
-- and I don't really have an immediate answer. I don't have an immediate answer to like,
"Well, you're just a Nazi sympathiser. You're just making excuses." Well, like, no, I'm
not making excuses. I'm not saying put up with that behaviour and don't defend yourself.
But I don't really have an answer for how exactly that works. But the thing is that
doesn't mean that's not legitimate. Just because I don't have an immediate answer right now
doesn't mean that's not legitimate. And also we -- this also reinforces my ideas around
like, you know, full-time work is fucking hard and our modern world just fucking sucks
the life out of us. It's so -- get out of here. It's so fucking -- it's like developed -- it's
like made to stop us being able to just stop and think. You know, we need to be able to
do this mental health work, do this -- it's hard to do all of these things and hold these
views and have these -- and, you know, really maintain those things while also trying to
fucking navigate how ridiculously tiring and difficult modern life is, constantly inundated
by a fucking tidal wave of bullshit, you know, pointless soulless work that largely -- largely
pointless and soulless work that just fucking drains us and leaves no time -- you know,
just an eternal distraction time suck machine. Which means it's okay to not -- it's also
okay to not work -- like, it's okay to fucking hate full-time work and not want to do it
despite what everybody tells you.
