I'm listening to episode 27 of "Waking From The Meaning Crisis" at the moment.
I've jumped back in and just kind of jumping around and listening to bits and pieces of it.
This is the early stuff about the switch to explaining the cognitive science side of things.
This is the episode where he starts talking about Newell and Simon and where he first explains relevance realisation.
The section I've just gotten up to he's talking about is when he starts getting into and explaining algorithms and heuristics.
What they are and that kind of thing.
And the way he explains it, it makes it clear that an algorithm is actually a practice that we undertake.
You know, 4 x 4 is an algorithm.
Although, maybe that doesn't quite hold up.
Yeah, actually I might be wrong here because he's saying you know the algorithm for doing multiplication like 32 x 4, 9 x 9, things like that.
Those are algorithms where you're reliably arriving at an answer basically.
But that's not necessarily a practice that we do.
I was thinking more like the 9 x 9 symbols where you're working out that you're following a rule to do that.
But actually I guess it's more like a heuristic really.
So yeah, I might abandon that one.
He does raise another interesting point that he talks about, you know, that algorithms work in terms of certainty.
You use algorithms when you're pursuing certainty.
But to guarantee certainty you have to search the entire problem space.
And the problem space is always combinatorially explosive.
And...
I...
That begs the question, how do we ever use algorithms?
When we're saying, you know, when computer science and stuff talks about using algorithms, are they actually not using algorithms?
Or is it that they're using algorithms but what I suspect it is is that they are assuming...
They are basically reducing the problem space by assuming certain things.
Like, you know, assuming...
If A, you know...
If A, then B...
Like the fucking, the classical example of a deduction...
Oh, that was close.
You're assuming, you know, if A is the case...
If Socrates is a man and all men are mortal, then Socrates must be a man.
C is certain, but you are assuming that A and B are also true in that, you know.
So, you're making assumptions.
I imagine that's probably how we make algorithms work, because clearly we don't.
Maybe when we talk about using algorithms we're not actually using algorithms, or it's this.
Assumptions leading to, you know, small worlds.
Not small worlds, yeah, actually small worlds, you know, like what economists do where they assume certain things so that we can have certain outcomes.
Interesting, so at 22 minutes...
22 minutes and 10 seconds, he relates the no-free-lunch theorem to heuristics.
And directly to cognitive... to combinatorial explosion.
Which is really...
That means that it's been taken... I thought that was an economic...
A theory in economics, or principle in economics.
And that, I guess, means it's been taken into account there.
I should look into the no-free-lunch theory, or theorem, or principle, or whatever it is.
And he shows here why...
Lady, what are you fucking doing?
And he shows again here why we will perennially constantly succumb to biases.
Because they are an outcome of our...
They are an outcome of our necessary ability to use heuristics to deal with combinatorial explosion and the enormous complexity of the world.
So in order to...
In order to function and deal with the world, we need to be... essentially need to be biased.
Which means that all the things that fucking frustrate the fuck out of me with people are unavoidable.
To some extent. They are going to happen and going to keep happening.
Because that's what it is to be a functioning human being, like to be able to function as a human being.
And there's probably an infinite... almost infinite variety... infinite number of varieties of ways to fall prey to biases.
But I still think the goal, or we should all be striving to get better at that.
And that is what he's talking about. Being prey to... which is exactly what he's talking about. Being prey to self-illusion.
Being prey to illusions and self-deception.
Which is exactly what he's talking about. His ecology of practices trying to resolve...
overcome the self-destructive, self-deceptive nature of our existence that has to be that way so that we can function.
So I should cut... basically I should cut people a bit more slack.
Essentially. I've only actually just realised that now that I have... like I used to be...
I'm actually less understanding now. I'm like... my frustration with people and their inability to...
see more than one side of things and to be enticed has come to biases has overcome my understanding that that is necessary.
And I used to have that. And it's kind of actually dwindled a bit and been kind of taken over by frustration at people.
Which is interesting. That kind of happens. It's making holy, to be honest.
And I think her biases really frustrated the fuck out of me, I think.
Maybe where some of this came from.
Yeah, it's hard to navigate. It's hard to... nice one, mate.
It's hard to balance. As all things in life are, hard to balance and hard to navigate.
I think this is something I'd really like to write about. My emerging worldview I have of the fact that the world, that existence is almost infinitely complex, incredibly difficult,
and is incredibly difficult and always will be incredibly difficult for everybody.
And the charity and the things that lead to that, like what we're talking about here, the infinite complex...
Like the fact that everything's... certainty is impossible, everything is more complex than it seems.
Everything John Vavakie's talking about in these early episodes around common-storial explosion.
And how that leads to empathy and understanding and charity for other people.
It should lead to empathy and charity and understanding for other people because things are always harder than we think they are.
And we are usually succumbing to some kind of bias when we are cracking the shits at people, basically.
We are all doing it all the time. And it cannot be any other way.
We can try to improve and get better, but we will always succumb to...
There will probably be other biases that we will succumb to. And that kind of builds into the process and the Nietzschean...
The Nietzschean processual view of the world... fucking hell dude!
The view of the world as a constant state of adaptation to a constant flux.
That existence is constantly caught in a state of tension between opposites, although it's probably more complicated than that.
And that means things are constantly dynamic and changing and shifting.
And that we constantly... there is no end state, there's no certainty. It's just about constantly trying to do the best we can to adapt and transcend.
Which is a process of adaptation.
Which is again exactly what he fucking talks about. God damn, this is exactly what I want to be writing about. This is my world view.
I want to start by explicating my own world view.
Maybe... I don't know, is this the ethical dimension of my world view?
The ontological dimension of my world view? It all kind of aligns.
But it's interesting how it's like almost like my feelings around kindness towards people have I think predated.
I've always kind of just had a sense or I valued those things and had a sense that we should.
And it's just been further enhanced by my studies in psychology and the other uncertainty of the world.
And then looking into this and everything around this.
The first step in expressing myself and doing my philosophy, my philosophising, is exactly this.
It is sitting down and really diving into the depth of my world view and where it comes from and what's driving it.
And then explicating each of those parts, building on them, making them really clear.
And then building on the evidence for those so that I can explain it to somebody else.
I want to be able to be like, this is how I see the world and this is why.
Like a manifesto basically of Michael's way of seeing the world.
And that will make it clearer for myself and also maybe let me be able to explain it to other people and have reasons and evidence for it.
Oh, that's really exciting. I've found a starting point.
Now I just need to do it, I guess.
Remember this. You have to have to come back to this one.
This is really, really, really important.
And episode 22nd half of episode 26 of Awaiting for the Meaning Crisis up to probably episode somewhere in the 30s.
Fucking vitally important.
And also that episode that you wrote a journal entry about where it talks about the fact that to be an orthopoetic thing is to be a self-transcending thing.
Because that then aligns with what your feelings around, your ideas and worldview around constantly just trying to adapt the process of constant adaptation and just trying to do the best.
Bring all of that together.
And from there you can expand out into talking about certainty and why you think there's a lack of certainty is impossible.
And you can pull in everything from, and everything that's related to that, like the quest for certainty that David Chapman talks about and all, and the replication crisis and all the things I'm fucking interested in around that and the problems that leads to.
And then that leads into the left hemisphere, right hemisphere stuff and what Ian McGilchrist talks about.
I need to structurally lay out all of this that I've just talked about and expand on it.
That's my first step.
Because it's all, it then just blooms outwards from there.
It's a starting point.
And maybe a good, a second place to then go onto after this basic worldview, manifesto of the worldview, of my worldview is to then dive into why it is I think that when I say the world is infinitely complex.
Because that's a really important point in the fact, in the whole adaptability and adaptation, self-transcendence and tension between two polar opposites and the principle of charity and because life's hard and things are complex.
And then I can explain to Jaden finally why I think things are infinitely complex.
I can dive into that and lay it out.
Like here's my argument for why things are infinitely, why the universe is infinitely complex.
