Listening to the latest episode of Philosophize This, episode 189 or something.
It's an episode about Jung Chul Hun and the loss of traditions and rituals.
He makes a really interesting point that feels quite relevant to me about how we are losing rituals because of the way society is becoming more and more self-focused.
We're more hyper-individualistic and it's more like you are the ultimate arbiter of what matters and what you should do and you shouldn't listen to anyone else kind of thing.
Which is resulting in the breakdown of rituals and traditions.
Jung Chul Hun talks about rituals as basically to time.
Basically rituals are to time what objects are to space.
They are kind of the things that fill up space and market.
With the common example of us not really having rites of passage anymore between adolescence and adulthood kind of thing.
The importance of the loss of those things of rituals and these ways of marking the passage of time is that when we have those we can have something that marks the fact that we've moved from one part of our life to another.
So we can put that part of our life behind us and enter another one.
Without those it all kind of blows together a bit.
That really kind of hits home for me. That feels kind of like what the last 10-15 years of my life have been since high school basically.
Since leaving high school.
I've seen multiple mentions of it elsewhere. Even in the book I'm reading at the moment by The How We Love Book by Clementine Ford.
She talks about in a couple of instances and at different points of our lives.
Younger but even more recently I think particularly around the COVID era. Talking about this feeling of waiting around for life to start.
That way this constant feeling of you're just waiting for something to happen. For life to really begin.
And almost ready to scream. Ready to do anything to happen as long as it's life starting.
Doesn't matter if it's good or bad. Just please life start.
And that really hits home.
I remember feeling when I graduated high school. When I graduated from uni a little bit. And I think the biggest one was when I was leaving from that period in my life.
A couple of months where I was getting ready to go to Korea and then going to Korea. That period in particular felt like probably the only time in my life that was like a real transition point.
And everything other than that has just kind of felt like a, I don't know, this smeared paste of time where it kind of just feels like I'm floating.
Just floating through.
Yeah.
And that's kind of been going since high school. Interrupted in some ways by that period of going to Korea.
It feels like, it's felt like there's been multiple periods of like, it feels like something's going to happen.
And then it ends up either not happening or it happens and it doesn't feel like it's any different.
Like, you know, going to Korea did feel like that. It felt like the biggest thing in my life. It felt like life's starting.
And in some ways it had, but at the same time it was also like, it kind of ended up feeling like more of the same.
And I came back lost.
And then I went through some things and came hyper-focused on a particular path and then the evident thing felt like it was going to be the next big step.
And that's kind of what I think, that's actually what I daydreamed. But you know, I've been finding myself daydreaming about working in a job that actually applies those things.
And that feels like the next big, it felt like what evident was going to be. And that now to me feels like the next big, you know, waiting for my life to start moment.
I think I maybe envisage it. I think it's maybe what the UK is for me as well. It's like, that's the next, that's life starting.
But yeah, I don't know. It's interesting to think that maybe some of this isn't so much to do with, some of the way I've been feeling this lostness is in some ways maybe also to do with the lack of rituals.
And transition points. Interesting.
And there's certainly not going to be any like, you know, socially ordained rituals.
Because there isn't any from this point in my life other than marriage, maybe like 50th wedding anniversary or 50th birthday, maybe like 25th wedding anniversary and 60th birthday.
There's not really any from here, from this, and retirement, from this point on there's not really any rituals.
Like big life rituals, not any transition points that are like socially ordained and supported.
I'm going to have to do them all myself, which is kind of not really what rituals are.
So yeah, interesting. And you know, like people used to have growing up leaving the home, going off to uni, like leaving the home and going off to leaving their hometown, going off to college and going off to join the army and all these big things that felt like life starting.
Which in some ways are like what David Chapman talks about of like kind of the period, these points in your life that are like bridges that induct you into systematicity, into systematic society and the systematic way of being.
You know, the kind of like entering the workforce, going to the army, going to uni, all these, going to college, all these sorts of things.
And now that's, those things happen but they don't, I'm not sure they feel the same. It all just feels kind of smeared and blurred together.
And then he goes on to talk about how the reason that these rituals are important is that we kind of make sense of things by fitting them into, when we are narrative creatures, we make sense of things by fitting them into the larger structure of a story of our lives kind of thing, at the end of the world.
So that's what rituals do. They are that kind of story creating, meaning making things.
He says, he says rituals are what give meaning to time, they're what turn time from anything other than just an endless series of individual isolated moments basically. Which is really, hits home and is really interesting.
And also really kind of goes in with what John Vavahian and David Chapman talk about a bit, with rituals and the function of ritual and all that kind of stuff.
And he makes the point that rituals and the things they give us, these kind of like social bonds and trust and connections and stuff, are long term and don't happen instantly, which means that they are not a short term thing.
And they don't play well with this like hyper efficiency, everything immediately society we live in. And we're losing a lot of those things, those community bonds, because of, and we're losing ritual and community bonds kind of hand in hand, they kind of go hand in hand.
