to one of my earlier recordings, the one that really set me off. I can't remember what it
was specifically, but it was the one I transcribed and then used as the starting point for what
I want to write. But listening to that again sparked an idea in me of questioning truth,
basically. So I was saying, how do algorithms actually work if to have certainty you have
to search the entire problem space, is that they reduce the problem space by assuming certain
things. You're assuming if Socrates is mortal, all men are mortal, Socrates is man, then therefore
Socrates must be immortal. It might be certain if A and B are the case, but you are assuming
that A and B are true. Which then brings up the question of truth. Now where my brain
went to from there was these ideas around scales of applicability, maybe. Like maybe
in a lot of instances, it's the same idea that applies in many other places that I've
thought about, but it's like, truth, the idea of truth. That works. The folklore, the folk
psychology idea of truth, this is the reasonableness thing that David Chapman talks about basically,
a bit applied, maybe a bit further. The everyday folk psychology idea is probably perfectly
fine. What we think of when we think of most of us think of truth is adequate for most
purposes that we're going to use it for. And in honestly the vast majority of cases
in everyday life we can get by with it as it's, you know, that there is a truth out
there. That some things are true and some things are not. That there is a particular
truth out there, etc. etc. And that's probably some approximation in some ways of what is
happening. Although now we're talking about applying truth to truth. Yeah, now we're talking
about the truth of truth. Like, yeah, it's a bit complicated, it's a bit circular. But
I think this idea of like reasonable, good enough, decent enough in most circumstances
is probably, but then, you know, the deeper you dive into it, the more that becomes not
the case. And like what Jayden and I were talking about the other day in the car, gender,
plain, the regular understanding of gender is probably fine in most instances in our
lives. For most people, for, you know, it seems like a reasonable majority of people,
gender isn't really an issue. You're a man or you're a woman. But things are actually
more complex than that. And that's fine most of the time. But things are actually more
complex than that. And I think that, I get the sense that that maybe applies in many
different places where we think about things in a certain way and that gets us through.
And for most practical everyday purposes, that's fine. Most everyday purposes, that's
fine. But reality's more complex than that. You know, like, it's basically like we shouldn't
denigrate or look down on everyday ways of fucking, stop the sun, the wind coming through.
We shouldn't look down on reasonableness, on, focus psychology on reasonable everyday
ways of dealing with the world because that's absolutely necessary. It's how most of us
deal with the world all the time. We wouldn't be able to live our lives without it. And
in fact in most instances it's sometimes better. But it is, I mean like in the case of gender,
it's very, it's cultural. We can see that, you know, the idea of two genders is, ow,
in my eyes, we can see that the idea of two genders is culturally, it's like a cultural
assumption based on historical traditions and all that kind of stuff. What's happened
before with the traditions and the cultures and the worldview assumptions that have built
up over time. So that everyday reasonableness is culturally constructed as much as it's
probably in a lot of ways also biologically constructed. But, that can be a problem because
that, again, that we lose flexibility, that gets crystallised. We lose flexibility and
aspects of reality get shaved off by the simple, and you know, that simplification is, this
comes exactly back to what John Fakie was talking about, well-defined and well-defined
problems and psychotechnologies and problem formulation and how psychotechnologies turn
ill-defined, messy problems into well-defined problems. So that it reduces the complexity,
it reduces the number of things that we have to work at and allows us to focus our relevant
naturalisation machinery in the right direction to make our lives better get through. And
that's absolutely fine and necessary and good, but it's also, it gets, we have to, that's
the problem, that problem formulation, we have to be cautious. There is a tendency,
a continuous tendency, and probably this is just baked into society and being human, but
there is a consistent trend, you know, of what becomes, goes from being ill-defined to
being well-defined through some set of psychotechnologies or ideas. We keep applying it, I think it's
really helpful and useful, and it makes the world more navigatable, but in the process,
over time, we lose flexibility, it becomes crystallised and it kind of like, equates,
becomes like a fossil, and our flexibility in the process necessarily shaves off some
of the complexity of the world. You know, ideas around gender, for a long time, it was
just, there's two. And it's not, not all cultures do that, but our culture does, and things
get lost in the mix. The complexity of reality gets shaved off. And it's like we have to
find this balance between using these simplification, these simplifying tools, these things that
define the world for us, and breaking them down and staying fluid and flexible. Those
two are constantly in tension with each other. More fluid and flexible, which is in a lot
of ways order and chaos. You know, a lot of the other stuff that Brett Anderson talks
about, it's like, well, you know, it's probably ways which that doesn't, that doesn't apply.
You know, I'm locked into that frame and I can't see ways in which that's not applying.
But it's like, you know, you have this, again, another tension point. You have this tension
point between, fucking hell, lovebirds. Yeah, you have this tension point between this stable,
well-defined things, categories, I guess. You know, this tension between the stability
of, I don't know what the right term is, I'm going to say the stability of crystallized
categories, well-defined problems, well-formulated problems, et cetera, where it's reducing the
complexity of the world and making things navigatable. You know, it's a model of what
people talk about. You know, when people talk about models of the world, the model is never
right or wrong. It's just more or less useful. And it being more or less useful is dependent
on the purpose it's for. But there's a tension, a constant tension between that and, you know,
between flexibility and openness, basically. It's poor doggers. Between, you know, like
the ability to break down the categories and reshape them in a reform, which is, I think,
in what's almost what David Chapman's talking about with ontological remodeling. Yeah, it's
like the ability to, you know, when our remain flexible and adaptive and when our stable categories
are no longer working, break them down. Yeah, stable categories, break them down. I guess
that's, yeah, I don't know how else to put it other than it's, again, the tension between
order and chaos. It's the tension between simplification, necessary simplification, and opening, flexibility,
creativity. Yeah, and I think that's kind of where we're at. It's in a lot of ways where
society is at at the moment. We are in a state of heightened tension where those, it's like,
you know, that kind of the struggle period where old categories are being broken down,
old ways of doing things and seeing things, old views of the world are being broken down
to potentially become more adaptive and useful, but potentially not. Perhaps it could get
a little bit, I think it's just maybe become a bit pathological because of, I don't know,
break down in communication, but maybe it's always been like that, you know, people used
to just fucking murder each other over these things. Now there's just a lot of yelling.
Yeah, so you know, we've had stable categories for a very long time, men and women. In the
West we've had stable categories of men and women for a very, very, very, very, very,
very long time. A fair while anyway. Although, you know, there are probably ways in which,
you know, there are probably elements of our culture where that hasn't always been the
case, but in the probably, I'd say the mainstream, that has been like the underlying assumption
that there are two categories, men and women. And we know we've applied, but that shaves
off complexity. There's some more I wanted to talk about there, but I've kind of waffled
on and just repeated the same thing ten times and forgotten what it was. But this is really
good. I really enjoyed this. I don't think you can prove anything really, but how would
I go about showing, giving evidence for the complexity of things? If I want to say, if
I want to put up an article or write a book or whatever and say, "This is my worldview,
the world is infinitely complex," or at least vastly more complex than we are capable of
probably ever going to be capable of dealing with, at least way beyond our current capacity
to deal with it, maybe that will change. I personally don't think so, but I could very
well be wrong. Nobody can really see the future. How do it do? How would I not prove, but how
would I give good evidence, how would I argue, give good, strong evidence to support the
argument that this complexity argument basically... Probably reading about complexity science,
I imagine. Emergence in complexity science. I really want to make a blog that has multiple
layers where it's maybe like... I really want to have a blog where every page has so many
different options. You can turn off hyperlinks completely, so there's no links anywhere.
There's no footnotes, there's no nothing. It's just a blank piece of text. And then
you individually can switch on hyperlinks and blog posts and stuff. And then maybe another
level, so you can toggle those on and off, and then maybe a light theme and a dark theme.
And then different levels of comprehensibility, basically. Where I... Maybe there's tier one,
tier two, tier three, tier one. I use less formal language. And this is literally just
the same article written multiple different ways and at multiple different lengths and
multiple levels of detail. So if you just want a quick read, bang on, get rid of the
footnotes, get rid of the hyperlinks, put it on tier one, there you go. Quick, simple
read and tier one should be simple. Really quite simplified. Tier two, maybe a bit more
complicated tier three, like academic level kind of thing. Yeah, and then also have like...
I think the world's infinite complex. Here's a paragraph about why I think why. Or a sentence
about why that's the case in tier one, a couple sentences in tier two, a paragraph in tier
three, something like that. Some level. But then there's like a hyperlink or like an off-footnote
or like a pop-out section or something. Expand and unexpand. You can be like... If you're
interested in why that's the case, rather than just be like, "Here's footnotes, go rid
for yourself. Here's a reference, go rid for yourself." Actually like really fucking go
into it and be like, "Here's a synthesis of my different... of the evidence I'm arguing
for. This piece, this piece, this piece, this piece, this piece, here's the references,
go rid for yourself, you can double-check each of those." It would really do my completionism
enough. Was... If I'll start there. I've just been thinking, is this what I've been talking
about with this like gender, truth, etc. etc. as being like useful in most circumstances,
but maybe not the full reality. But are they any less real or true? Is truth any less true?
Any less real? You know, in the same sense that, you know, you... Are you and your experience
any less real than the cells that make you up? Are you less true than the cells that make
you up? You know, and then the same for cells to the subatomic, you know, the particles,
the molecules that make them up, and then the atoms that make up those molecules, and
then the subatomic particles that make up those atoms. You know, like, if our science
is correct then cells do exist. But we don't. That has no bearing on our everyday lives.
We don't need to know that for everyday lives, but is either of those things less real or
true than the other? And is it maybe possible that both things can be real or exist or be
true in some sense at the same time? Depending... And it's dependent on where you're looking
and what you're looking for, why you're looking what you're looking for, like where... As
to what is true and what is real. And maybe... Does this maybe link... This links a little
bit to what David Chapman talks about with the cells of the eggplant, where it's kind
of like truth matters. Truth is dependent on... Is this more or less true than the other?
Well, it depends on, you know, is there water in the egg... There's water in the cells of
the eggplant. Is this untrue or is it true at a different scale or more or less true,
etc etc. And I think it also connects perhaps to what Greg Enriquez and John Vivecki have
been talking about with their transcendental naturalism, or transcendent naturalism, I
can't remember what it's called, and the idea of like a layered ontology. That scientific
world view doesn't have a layered ontology. It has kind of a modest ontology where it
seeks to reduce everything down to its constituent, constituent parts until it reaches a bottom
level. And that's what's ultimately real, with that being, you know, quantum physics
basically. And then we have the problem of that doesn't actually match up with our...
What happens in quantum physics doesn't line up with our everyday experience at all. So
is it possible that multiple things can be real at the same time? And it depends on...
Or true, and it depends on the context, on the purpose, on the... Yeah, I'm not quite
sure how to put it any more than that.
