listening to episode 29 of Awakening from the Meaning Crisis. This is at about 13 minutes
in. He starts talking about how represent, how we might use, he's talking about trying
to explain relevance, like theories of relevance, trying to explain relevance without relying
on relevance itself. He talks about different ways that people have tried to do this and
he starts with representation. So I think this is a, I've not really gotten any insights
yet but it's just, this is just a note that this is a really good place to go to for inspiration,
material, whatever, for my ideas around for how I feel about representation and the problems
with representation and what representation is and the problems with this computational
theory of mind and all that kind of stuff wrapped up in this. This is actually probably
where my interest came from to be honest. He talks about an issue that John Searle raised
and talked about which is that representation is aspectual. When you create, when you form
a representation, assuming you actually do, assuming we do that, but if you form, when
you form a representation you don't, that representation isn't, doesn't capture all
of the aspects of, it doesn't capture all of the object. You don't capture everything
about it. There are plenty of features that you just, that aren't there in your mind.
So you are, obviously what he's going to go on to talk about is that you're capturing
the relevant ones to you. He talks about, so these aspects are, the aspects, the parts
of the object that we represent in our mind are the parts that have, that are, so he goes
deeper into relevance. So it's, we don't capture all the parts. We capture the parts that are
relevant to each other and to ourselves. That's important. The parts that are relevant to
each other, the parts that are co-relevant, that's the structural functional organisation.
It's the, it's the aspects, it's the features, the properties of an object that are important
to each other, that co-, that kind of link together and connect together that are then
also relevant to you. All of those parts are, that, all of that is what, are the aspects
you pick up. But that's also an important point as to what structural functional organisation
is. It's co-relevance. It's co-, it's co-relevant qualities.
