I just want to dictate some of what I'm thinking about writing in a journal.
So I'm thinking of writing an article about the opponent processing framework.
And I just want to dictate some of the things I'm thinking about, what I want to say about
it.
So I think it's a really, like what I said in the other, it won't show up here, but it's
in folder A, the other thing I just did, the journal I just did, where I was saying that
it's important, like it's important not to see it as, not to see it as absolutely correct,
the absolutely correct system.
But I think it's a real, so basically it's this pattern that I keep seeing, that I see
so much converging evidence for.
I'm seeing it again and again and again.
I've seen it so many times.
And this is not just a recent phenomenon.
I didn't realise, like I hadn't seen it for what it was until the last couple of years,
but it's something I've experienced for my entire life, is that this phenomenon of so
often when we have these two sides, and so often we have some polarised issue where we
have two sides, along some spectrum usually, and in most instances, and things seem to
be becoming more and more like this, and in most instances you get people who are on one
side and maybe it's just a vertical minority, but it definitely does seem to be the case
to me that from my lived experience, whether there's any evidence to back it up, I don't
know, but from my lived experience there's seen to be this way of talking to other people
and also reading the internet and articles and how people display themselves and that
kind of thing.
It seems to me there's a, a lot of people tend to think this way of like they kind of
get, they're on one end or the other and they don't really see the, they just kind of attack
the other view.
And so much of my life I've always, for so long I've always really cared about trying
to have an open mind and see beyond those sorts of polarisations.
There's a lot more that goes into that, my own personal experience of that and my life
history of that, but it's a thing I've cared about my entire life and I'm reaching a peak
of it now, well not the peak, the best of it, like the furthest point in that so far,
but it's a pattern that I see play out again and again where it's not, each side thinks
that they are right, they're correct, etc. but actually it seems that there are important
elements in both, not all of it, but there are important elements in both that are true
or correct or need to be taken seriously, etc. etc.
And often it ends up, it seems to end up being that there is this trade-off relationship
between these two poles and that you have people who fall in on one side or the other
of these two poles.
You know, conservatism versus progressivism, etc. etc.
But there are important things that come out of, you can't have just one, you can't just
have progress, you can't just have conservation and tradition, you have to have both and different
people care about each to different degrees, which is why you get conflict between people
but you can't just have one or the other.
But you also, the more you have one, the less you have of the other.
Sometimes, maybe there's ways in which that isn't the case, I haven't thought about them
or I haven't seen evidence of them, but it does often seem to be the case that you are
necessarily, the more you go into one, the less you're doing the other.
But you have to, that always has to happen because you can't just be like, "No, this
one's right, we're just going to go with this one."
But it's also a dynamic thing, like it's, there's never just one, that's not saying that we
should always be in the middle, we shouldn't always just be centrist and middling.
Sometimes maybe in some instances, in some context, it maybe is better to be more to
one side than the other, but it's a dynamic, constantly shifting, constantly changing process.
And then that links to my conceptions of the world as this hyper complex, constantly shifting,
dynamic thing.
And the important thing is, this is a really, really powerful tool, it's a really, really
powerful framework, and that leads into my view of seeing things rather than, I myself
have a desire, I feel myself wanting to reify that, and wanting to reify that and say, I
find myself thinking, "This is the way the world is, existence is like this, there are
these two poles, this dynamic interplay is built into reality."
That may not be the case, maybe it is the case in some, maybe I find myself wanting
to edge in towards thinking that and wanting to say that, but that is maybe to commit a
reification fallacy.
It may be more complex than that.
Regardless, I think it's an important tool, it's an important way of seeing, it's an important
tool set, a mental tool set to take up, and that then leads into my article about ways
of seeing as tool sets, or I don't know, tool views, I don't know, like feminism, like rationalism,
like particular religions, like particular rational systems, like particular disciplines,
each of those is a view onto the world, it's a tool set for engaging with the world, and
it's never always right.
It's never always right in every instance.
It's again, phrenesis, it's about finding the right thing for the right time for the
right context, which is an extremely hard thing to do, which is why we make mistakes,
which is why we have conflict and all that kind of stuff, because there is no right answer.
That's always perfectly right and always true and et cetera, et cetera.
Regardless, going back to this, it's important, so this high level concept, and then give
some examples, maybe draw on some research, like Heraclitus and I think probably Nietzsche
and Nietzsche and how he talks about it a bit, there is reason for this, but also people
who haven't necessarily brought it up, and some things John Vivecki says, but some of
the things that people who haven't necessarily framed it as this, but things that I have
seen and people who talk about things that I can see that link into that pattern of the
tension of opposites, like the two hemispheres, like liberalism versus progressivism, individualism
versus collectivism, what's it called, explore versus exploit, generalise versus particularise,
generality versus particularity, others, and how all of these can be seen as the same.
That might not mean that those things are necessarily that way, but there is this pattern visible
there and there is powerful, I think, outcomes that can come from viewing them in that way,
even if that's not 100% necessarily absolutely the truth of them or that's the whole truth
of them.
It may be an aspect of them or it may not even be real.
It's just a way that they, maybe not even be the way that they actually are.
It may just be a way that I am seeing them, but that still has value because of the outcomes
we can get from that, because of what we can do with that tool.
There was something in there that I wanted to say that I've forgotten.
I'll probably remember it if I listen to this again.
But yeah, a, fuck, I'm losing it, tool, da da da da, yeah, examples.
And then it's, I think, probably important to talk about how, it's probably important
to talk about how, I'm not, John, to talk about, John Forvecki talks about this as opponent
processing, then talk about how I'm not sure opponent processing is the right term because
that's necessarily maybe dialogical processing or competition in the sense of that, you know,
that sense of competition where you're mutual striving, that I'm not entirely happy with
the notion of opponent processing, especially when John Forvecki says, you know, opponent
versus adversarial processing, when adversarial and opponent, adversarial and opponent basically
mean the same thing.
And then be like, and then, you know, here's that high level abstract stuff and then here's
a concrete example of it.
Here's how I think that tool can be useful because I'm going to apply it to this specific
instance in my own life where I feel like I, you know, I'm a very open person.
I am constantly trying to be open minded towards others.
I'm going to have to talk about some, like, pretty, find a way to talk about some pretty
personal stuff between me and Holly without making it clear that it's about me and Holly,
I guess, or just do that anyway, which is hard because anybody who knows me knows that
immediately, I've only been with one person, immediately knows that's about my ex, it's
about Holly.
So it's hard to make, not sure whether to make it personal or not, but then talk about
stuff I outlined, you know, I feel like I am an open minded person but the downside
of that is that comes with you at the expense of my boundaries are more porous and here's
how that played out in my relationship.
But I hypothesise that that's maybe a pattern that plays out in a larger scale.
You know, there are boundaries, having boundaries and, you know, standing up for yourself and
that kind of thing.
This may be just me applying my own personal experience but I think there's also some value
in exploring this.
There is perhaps a trade off relationship between having boundaries and hard boundaries
and knowing who you are and standing up for those things and, you know, putting yourself
into a box and your views into a box and being open minded, you know, and each has its own
downsides.
The harder your boundaries, the less you're going to be able to see other people's points
of view but the more open minded you are and the more open minded you are and the more
you try to take on other people's, be open to other people's points of view, that may
come at the cost of your boundaries being more porous and you eventually potentially
just taking on other people's points of view or taking on the perspective of you being
the bad guy or the things that happened to me.
And here's how it personally applies in my own life and that may be a pattern that plays
out on a larger scale and that's an interesting thing to explore.
