listening to After Socrates, episode 3 got up to 29 minutes, and he's starting to get
into explaining participatory knowledge. He does that by explaining this idea that you
don't have to know what you know to know. You don't have to know that you know in order
to know. Because then he talks about the infinite regress of, you know, how do I know that I
know that, well I have to know that I know that, that I have to know that I know that,
etc. It's just an infinite regress. Which I think is maybe the Getty Air problem. So
there are many things we know and that we don't know that we know them. And we might
not be able to justify that we know them. And the problem this raises in philosophy,
the reason it's become such a thing is that if in order to know that you know x, so in
order to know x, you have to know that you know x, then it creates that infinite regress.
Which I think might be the Getty Air problem. The argument, or like the example he uses
to explain participatory knowing is that we shift between perspectives. And then he asks,
where are you doing that? Where are you actually shifting between perspectives? He bases participatory
knowledge on the agent arena relationship and the definition he gives for agent is the following.
I think that I think is central to what an agent is. An agent is able to determine the
consequences of its behaviour and alter its behaviour in order to change the consequences
and bring about consequences that it wants. And I think some of the things that David
Chapman has to say about agency and how we need to rethink agency in his AI book would
put some of that stuff into question, I think. Whether that puts the agent arena relationship
into question I don't know, but it might put that definition of the agent into question.
The important part of this though is that he's using that definition as the basis for
the agent arena relationship because he's saying if that's the case, if being an agent
means that you can determine the outcomes of your actions and then, or determine outcomes
for yourself and then take actions to change those outcomes and do something you want.
Part implicit in that is the fact that the world has to be able to support those outcomes
and those actions. So there's already a relationship between the actor and the world built in.
This whole section is a really good explanation of the agent arena relationship and put this
story knowing and it's also I think really quite closely linked to Heidegger's work.
I think this idea draws heavily from Heidegger, I think. So we've got up to about 37 minutes
and this is 37 and a half minutes and this is where he starts talking. This is the bit
I was really interested in and wanted to get to. He's talking about what happens when the
agent arena relationship and participatory knowing stop working. He says that you will
find that affordances, which are the opportunities for action and for, I guess, yeah, the opportunities
for action in the environment. But I think also beyond that in our own thinking and all
that kind of thing, because of the relationship between the agent and the arena and the way
that they are shaping each other, those affordances start to dry up and participatory knowing
stops working. He talks about culture shock and homesickness as examples of when that
occurs. Culture shock particularly because culture shock, I don't know about homesickness,
but culture shock because you don't know how to be in that environment. You don't have
a necessarily have an agent arena. If you have to be in a certain arena to be a certain
agent and there has to be a relationship between that agent and that arena where you can be
a certain kind of agent in a certain kind of arena and something can be a certain kind
of arena for you if you are a certain kind of agent. You don't have that relationship
if you're outside of your specifically, especially a drastically different culture that is not
there for you, which means that you don't know what the fuck to do. He goes on to talk
about home, which I'm going to talk about in a minute, but I also think actually depression
is probably another example of this. He uses homesickness as a place, you feel homesickness
when you're in a place where you can't be yourself. This is the really important part
that I wanted to record. Home is the place where the agent arena relationship is really
working well. I'll get back to that really important bit in a moment, but I'm going to
talk about that important bit being home, being where the agent arena relationship is working
really well. He talks about how if we are no longer at home in our cosmos because of
the meaning crisis and worldviews and stuff, that means our agent arena relationship is
breaking down and when that breaks down all the other forms of knowledge break down too.
We don't know how to be, we don't know how to see things, we don't know what to do, we
don't know what to think. I think that is kind of reminiscent of depression too to be
honest. This home being where the agent arena relationship is working well, not entirely
sure about that, but it does also resonate because I don't feel at home in Australian
culture and it does often feel like I have this yearning for to do something or to be
different and I just don't know what it is. I think that's a feeling that's kind of...
that drives with my experience a lot. Not feeling at home in my culture and part of that I think
is just not feeling at home in capitalist Western culture or just capitalist culture and I think
that's kind of going to be a problem no matter where I go because of how I feel about work
and I can't buy into that whole thing. I think maybe that's part of where mental health and
mental suffering and a lot of that mental health stuff that's happening is probably because
people no longer feel at home in capitalism. Maybe they never were but we are becoming
more and more... we feel out of place because it's not really... most of capitalism isn't
really... it's not made for humans anymore. It's gotten to a stage, I mean it always kind
of was a little bit, but we're just... people used to be able to buy into it more I think
and now it's very hard to buy into. So it's like it doesn't... we don't feel at home there
so the agent-renewal relationship is breaking down which I think also leads to depression
and hopelessness and parasitic processing and all that kind of... the downward spiral
and all those things. But I also feel that a lot in Australia. I just... I can't relate
to so much of... I can't connect to so much of our culture and culture is what provides
so much of that structure. So much of that structure of home. Yeah I think that's a really
interesting thought. It says when the agent-arena relationship breaks down participatory knowing
breaks down and when that breaks down our ability to make connections and... hold on...
ability to make connections and act appropriately breaks down and that basically sounds like
meaning to me. The ability to make connections which is that connectedness, the relationship
to self other world. That's meaning and meaningfulness and you know we use meaning to act effectively.
Like David Chapman talks about meaning exists in relationships within a context for a purpose
usually to guide action even if that action is thought. So maybe we get a sense of meaninglessness
is arising from a breakdown in participatory knowing because we no longer feel at home.
Because we don't know who we are and what the world is. We don't know how those two...
we... in an unconscious way... unconscious sense we no longer know ourselves, the world
or how the two relate together. Because those things are no longer provided for by our culture
and all the various things that come together to create that. He's also equating participatory
knowing with the self which is interesting given all that David Chapman in Buddhism talks
about to do with no self and no selfness and the illusion of the self and all that kind
of stuff. And I think also the ways in which the self are related to parasitic processing
and I think tied up in depression and shit like that. This is interesting and so this
is an interesting note. So he starts talking about that. That stuff he then goes on to
talk about how... what each of the four things are doing for us in this four knowings. Participatory
knowing is generating affordances. Perspectival knowing is basically making those particular
ones of those affordances salient to you based on your perspective that you're taking. Then
that perspective and those affordances then... the perspective you're inhabiting and the
any affordances it highlights then give you your situational awareness which then allows
you to choose which skills you're going to use. And then this is the important bit. As
you use skills you are starting to form generalized patterns about the world which are... is your
propositional knowledge, your facts. And that's really interesting because notice, propositional
knowledge is the generalized patterns in the world and that is so much of what that...
the left brain, closeness, having mode, rationality, scientific... all of that, that whole schema
of things is so focused on is the universal, generalizable patterns. That's what it's looking
for. That's what it cares about. It cares about universal... well I don't know if it's
right to equate that with the left hemisphere and the having mode but it still feels so
much like it's a family resemblance and it's in the same ballpark. There's a thematic relationship
there. There's definitely a relationship there. And that's probably part of why propositional
knowledge is so favoured and why that's the only knowledge that we care about. But then
he goes on to say, you know, notice that you can't actually form propositional knowledge
without having the skills, the procedural knowledge, the skills about how to actually
do that. You have to have the skills to be able to form the skills for forming and using
the procedural knowledge. So propositional knowledge is entirely dependent on skills
and procedural knowledge. He says, you know, it's the non-propositional things that make
the world meaningful for you before you can then bring it into the propositional knowledge.
Propositional knowledge is dependent on meaningfulness which arises from the non-propositional, ultimately
rises from the participatory. And then he goes on to say, you know, notice how, as an
example of this, notice how hard it is to put the non-propositional into the propositional.
Like as an example.
I do this sometimes with my students. Give me instructions on how to tie my shoelace
and I'll follow the instructions exactly. And it's like, oh my gosh, it's really hard.
Tell me, give me the complete and exhaustive set of instructions for riding a bicycle so
it won't fall off. Oh, right. Tell me a particular, give me in propositions a particular, you know,
that captures perfectly your particular perspectival knowing. What was it like when you first made
love? Translated completely into propositions for me. And then more penetratingly.
Translate who you are yourself into an exhaustive set of propositions.
That's ridiculous. Yeah.
Yeah. So, particularly that last one, but like give me the exhaustive set of propositions
that explains, that outlines yourself. I think it's really interesting because we often are
trying to explain and reduce ourselves in propositions. Our identities. I am this set
of identities. But that never captures the totality of us, which is the whole fucking
point about, you know, any person is always greater than how we can frame them. And maybe
the propositional knowledge and words and language has a large amount to do with that
framing. And this is also like another example of the ways in which we have our focus, our
hyper focus on the propositional, which is, I think, is related to that irrational, rationalist,
analytical, scientific, left brain way of seeing the world. We are reducing everything
to that. We are trying to reduce. And that's, and I think that's so much of where, and I
think it's part of one of my problems with analytical, you know, because he talks about
how meaning making occurs at the level of the non-propositional, but so much of analytical
philosophy tries to look at and analyse and think about meaning through the propositional.
It doesn't look deeper than the propositional. Most of analytical philosophy is almost entirely
about the propositional, which is why I have so many problems with it, I think. That's,
I think, Wittgenstein's whole fucking point that we are trapped within language because
language can never convey everything. So this is him talking about, I'm just going to do
what he says, because it's also an interesting note on something I should look up. This is
what he says.
I think the failure, and I agree with many people, Stanley Rosen and many people, the
failure of purely analytic philosophy, the purely propositional manipulation of concepts,
what do you mean it fails? Well, I don't mean that we didn't learn a lot, but it didn't
generate wisdom, it's questionable if it generated that much knowledge, and it actually generated
a lot of arguments showing how it had to be radically insufficient. Many of these arguments
that have been given to you are ultimately originated within some of the giant figures
of the analytic tradition.
Okay, I think that is incredibly interesting. I think he's definitely probably talking about,
almost certainly referring to Wittgenstein, but probably maybe some of the ordinary language
philosophers as well. But that's, I think, a really fucking bang on critique of analytical
philosophy and I think really puts into words part of why I'm so derisive of it and why
I struggle to care about it. Yeah. I want to listen to that quote a few more times.
And then he says, "So the non-propositional is so important for that connectedness to
ourselves, the other, ourselves, the other, ourselves, others, and the world, which,"
and that is so tied up with meaning and finding one's own life meaningful and worth living,
basically, comes from that connectedness, that relationship between things. I've so
much with senses that a lot of the scholarship on meaning and life about how a lot of meaning
life comes from relationships with others. When people are facing their death, they don't
usually care about their possessions or their power. They care about the relationships they've
formed. And that is another thing for the other side of things I've been looking at,
the self-development, personal psychology stuff of Mark Manson and Brené Brown and
all them talk about the stuff that I discovered in my relationship with Holly, the important
of vulnerability and the importance of connection with others because I don't... And that personal
stuff I was struggling with where I realised my deep fears, which is in a lot of ways basically
vulnerability, like fears about vulnerability, my fears about being open, cut me off from
myself, others, and the world, which is probably where a lot of my feelings of meaninglessness
come from. So this personal self-development and learning how to be vulnerable is intimately,
which is my personal mental health journey that I'm on, is intimately tied up with all
of this stuff, intimately tied up with all the philosophical worldview stuff that I'm
interested in, which is so fucking insane. That means I should get to a point where I
should start talking... I've laid out my worldview and I should start talking about how this
applies to the personal level, how this applies to the work we need to do on ourselves to
overcome vulnerability and which... Overcome vulnerability and learn to truly, really connect,
have real, authentic connections with other people, ourselves, the world around us, our
society, our culture, all those things, our community. And as Brené Brown talks about,
a lot of those things, a lot of the struggles with vulnerability actually comes from our
society, our capitalist society because of the emphasis it puts on, one, the emphasis
it puts on success and two, the emphasis it puts on lacking. No matter what we do, we
always feel like we're lacking in time, we're lacking in love, we're lacking in whatever.
And that comes back to the having note, which comes back to John Vavecki's central thesis
of his entire fucking project, which is that we have forgotten the being mode and we've
become existentially locked in the having mode and we need to rediscover and remember
the being mode. We need to sauté, remember the being mode so that we can form those connections
through a rebuilt agent-renewing relationship. We need to rebuild our agent-renewing relationship
and use that to recreate and reform and regrow, recultivate those connections between ourselves,
others and the world in order to find that meaning again. Wow, damn, I'm going to be
bringing in Mark Manson and Brene Brown into this, which is probably useful given that
they're pretty big figures at the moment, but it also makes it so much more important
to individuals and so much real to people, I think. And that's important because it's
like this is how these things, it's not, that takes it from the abstract and it's like this
is how it directly impacts you and your life. And the other thing that's interesting as
part of that as well is it's like that vulnerability, that fear of vulnerability, I think is in
some ways also related to these ideas of toxic masculinity and how ideas around masculinity
and stereotypical masculinity involve not sharing your emotions, not being open about your emotions
and that at its core is basically avoiding vulnerability. Which then goes back to patriarchal,
feminist arguments about patriarchy and how capitalism is basically created by and for
men. Capitalism is basically created by and for men and because of that it reflects their
way of seeing the world, which means that this fear of vulnerability is baked into it.
It's important also to then, if I do end up going down that route and then connecting
it to feminism and talking about that, it's important to however discuss at length the
importance of masculine traits as well, stereotypically masculine traits. All of these things have
a place, that's the whole fucking central point, all of these things have a place. And
there are situations in which we need to be vulnerable, it's just that we have taken it
too far, we have gone too far in that direction. Which is why feminism is important as well
because it's pushing back against a hyper-masculine world, hyper-stereotypically masculine world
which involves late stage capitalism and everything that comes with that and fear of vulnerability
and the breakdown. I think the stuff that John Vavey talks about is directly connected
to some of the stuff that a lot of feminists talk about and a lot of the self-help stuff
that's arising out of people on the edge of this like Mark Manson and um, Mark Manson
and Brene Brown.
Whoops, buggered that.
