listening episode 3 of After Socrates, up to about 56 minutes. This is only really,
it's only barely related. He's basically, basically he was talking about how, you know,
we don't, there's no instruction manual for, for dialectic in the work of Plato and the
people who came after him, and kind of talks about how that might, you know, that lines
up with the fact that dialectic is about getting into the non-propositional, because if we
had even an instruction manual, that's basically reducing it to the, that's putting the non-propositional
into the propositional, and it might, you know, trick us or make us think we can reduce
dialectic into the propositional. Here's a set of, you know, propositions, here's a
set of algorithms, whatever, that I can use to, to gain that thing, to control that thing,
to have that thing, to get it. And that, that alone is a pretty big thing, because that's,
again, that lines up with the, you know, left brain, left hemisphere stuff of, you know,
and the way that we are centred on, and the way that we're centred on the propositional.
But I also, it also made me realise, I mean, this was kind of already sort of clear, but
it really made me jump, like, see this properly, and, you know, all the work, all the stuff
that I've been looking at recently, computation, you know, what computers do, and, you know,
what computation is, is about the manipulation of propositions. You know, it's, it's, it's
logical, it's, it's, it's all about logic, it's, it's, and it's the codification and
manipulation of, it's, it's the clear codification and manipulation of logical propositions.
So computing works entirely in terms of the propositional. And we have, you know, and
this kind of turn towards the left hemisphere turns, or like, turn towards the propositional,
privileging of the propositional and forgetting of everything else aligns so much with this
like Silicon Valley mindset, and the way that the, that stem is taking over the world, and
this propositional, you know, computing is taking over the world, partly probably because
it's embedded in the propositional, which is probably like a self-reinforcing feedback
cycle between privileging the propositional, like it's, that arose maybe because it, because
we're privileging the propositional, and in doing that, and it taking over the world,
it's further, it has just further cemented us into, locked us into the propositional.
Yeah, interesting. Probably why systems of logic always fail, because the propositional
can never fully capture reality. Propositions are always framing things, they're always,
something always falls outside of that proposition. Just to quickly mention that when he's talking
about, you know, us having, yeah, if we had a, if we had a, I had an instruction manual
for dialectic, it would want, we would be thinking we have a set of rules, or a recipe,
or a dialect, or an algorithm, and those are the things that we often look to, you know,
we expect algorithms, we expect and look for and depend so much, and think, and reduce
things to rules, algorithms, and recipes.
We've got up to about an hour, and this is an hour? An hour and two minutes. This is
an interesting point, so he talks about how, so he's, there's a dialogue where he's, one
of the later dialogues with Socrates is talking to these two generals who are deciding with
this, and they're sent to some particular instructor to learn courage, and Socrates
talks to them about, you know, what is courage, and one of them basically comes up with a
subjectively, it's like a, I know what courage is, it's an intuitive, this is what courage
is, and that's like a subjectively generated, you know, idea of courage, and then the, which
is the first person, you know, I know what this is, and then the other general has an
objectively generated propositional definition of what courage is, which is a technical definition
he comes up with, which is third person, you know, it's like courage is this, and then
the point John Favakie's making is, you know, what else is there between objective and subjective,
and he says Socrates adopts the second person perspective, which is you, which only exists
in dialogue, and it steers between the first person, third person, it steers between this
objective and the subjective and beyond it, which I think is a really interesting idea,
and it's true, like, you, second person, does only exist in dialogue, it's when you, it's
when one person is addressing another, which is within dialogue, so it's like, you know,
talks about how this second person is Socrates moving beyond this objective and the objective
to the transjective, the between. This is interesting, so he talks about how orientation
is really important, it's, orientation is, fuck I'm just gonna let him speak.
Let's just, like, alright, orientation is this combination of, right, assuming the right
agent arena relationship, the right perspectival knowing, so that I can find my way. So orientation
is deep, it's primordial, it's presupposed in everything we're doing. When you come
into a place, before you start to do anything, you have to properly orient it. That's your
religion, you have to properly orient. That point alone is really interesting, but it,
also, that aligns, I think, with what I was talking about, my example of windows under
the world, because those windows are an orientation, and they're not just a window, they're a
window of an orientation, really. That is us orienting ourselves, because it's, you
know, towards something, it's towards out into the world.
And this is interesting too, so it's about a minute six, he's talking about how, this,
I think, is Gonzalez, this Plato's Scholar who's drawing on, talks about how dialectic,
he uses dialectic to bring about radical aporia, which is basically that realization
of ignorance, it's like the kind of the questioning, it's questioning, he brings you, you know,
I know what courage is, and then he demolishes your ideas of courage, and leaves you confused
and disoriented, and really what that is, is him destroying your frame.
It's him destroying your windows under the world, it's him destroying your, or breaking
your perspective, so that you can, which then allows you, and allows you to see the ways
in which your perspective isn't, is your window, your frame isn't working, and allows you to
rebuild it. And in some ways, I feel like that's what I'm,
it's an overstatement to compare myself to this, but this feels kind of like what I'm
constantly drawn to do. I am constantly drawn to question what other
people say and think, and I'm constantly drawn to get them to question it.
I'm constantly frustrated by people's stuckness in their own frames, and I constantly feel
like I want to question them, I want to do, I want to basically pull a Socrates and like,
make them, push them into, you know, seeing the holes in their perspective, seeing the
holes in their frame, and leaving them an Emporio, I guess.
I feel drawn to do that constantly. Hard part about doing that though is respecting
people's emotions and perspectives and feelings at the same time, and also not, like, coming
in saying, "You don't know whatever you're talking about, I do, here's the truth."
Doing what Socrates actually does, which is, you're like, "I don't know, neither do you."
Let's question this together. Fucking hell, the, so up to, it's about probably
a minute and ten or so, he starts talking about Graham Priest's ideas about the one,
him talking about the one, this is another example of radical Emporia, but this is really
fucking fascinating. This is getting into the category stuff, you know, and the Socrates
paradox and like, you know, he's like, you know, what makes something one? What makes
a wall a wall? Well, you've got the bricks and they're held together by the mortar, and
it's like, well, what holds the mortar to the bricks? It's like, well, I guess subatomic
particles, you know, positive/negative charges, like, what holds them together?
You know, we assume oneness, we thingify, we reify things constantly, we assume the
world is created by the composed of things, we treat the world that way, but when it actually
comes to thinking about and really looking into that, that falls apart, which is directly
getting into this stuff about, you know, categories and levels of categorisation and realness
that I'm interested in. So come back, I can't fucking lay all of this stuff out, but it's
fascinating, come back and listen to it. Yeah, and he talks about Graham Priest talking
about how the only way we can give up the infinite regress of the idea of, in the idea,
baked into the idea of one, is if we give up the idea of non-contradiction, which is like
the foundation of logic and therefore analytical philosophy, which I think is exactly what
Ryan was saying, something can't be both true and not true. And yeah, I think this is getting
into non-logical identity. Year of thinghood and us taking thing any
other way and what makes something one and us taking thinghood as the fundamental nature
of reality is directly related to what David Chapman talks about with, you know, like levels
of, what is it, like the nebulosity and the fuzziness of reality and how things, you know,
when does a bald person bald, etc, etc, all of these things, that's nebulosity. And that's
actually an example of, that I can and should draw on for the idea of non-logical, what's
it called, the idea of infinite complexity that I'm going to draw on for the like foundational
argument of my piece, of my arguments. You know, this, you know, we have to radically
question things, I think is, whether that's the same as being infinitely complex, I don't
know. But I'm going to, I'm going to, I think make that one. I'm not entirely sure if it's
a strong one, but I'm going to make it anyway.
