So I'm listening to, I guess they're all after Socrates episode 2, this is a fucking good
one. And I am up to 42 minutes. And he's talking about sensibility transcendence, that Socrates
affords this. I'm lessened to the, what I've got to talk about isn't about the Socrates
side of things, it's about the sensibility transcendence side of things. So I'm going
to put on what John Verbecky says, give me a moment.
Socrates affords trans-framing. What do I mean by that? It's a combination of transcendence,
transformation and reframing. You know when you have an insight and you realize you've
been misframing, not properly proportioning and directing your attention. I thought she
was being aggressive, but she's actually afraid. Oh, I've just been mishandling this whole
thing. I was mistaken. Oh, insight.
You can also get what Iris Murdoch, sorry, what John Wright, following Iris Murdoch,
and I can't talk a lot about this. So that's the important thing to note. So the sensibility
transcendence comes from John Wright, who follows on from Iris Murdoch. So I definitely
want to look at that because Iris Murdoch was somebody I was interested in. I can't
quite remember why and where I'm pretty sure she was one of the people that philosophized
this talks about in relation to maybe Simone Vey. I'm not quite sure. I think maybe Iris
Murdoch follows on from Simone Vey. I can't quite remember. But anyway, yeah, so that's
an important thing there that I want to follow up on, that path. John Wright, I think its
name was. But anyway, continuing.
Meaningful, it's called sensibility transcendence. I can get simultaneously an insight into that
person and a reflective insight into me. The way I have habitually been framing or thinking
about things or being with people also needs to be reframed. I can reframe, I can be reframing
that person and reframing my sense of who I am and how I look at the world. And that
means I start to reciprocally open. I start to transcend myself. I start to afford that
person to transcend my conception of them. I start to be transformed. They start to be
transformed in how they are and can be to me. Transframing. Socrates affords that.
So I'm not sure about the other person side of things, but I definitely feel like after
my relationship with Holly and maybe in some ways, no, I think it's been more afterwards,
although no, actually in some ways during the relationship with Holly, but I think it
really all congealed afterwards. I feel like I kind of went through that experience, realising
a lot of the ways I wasn't at all aware of a lot of the things that I now am aware of,
my issues with vulnerability, my issues around emotionality, that my emotions don't feel
safe, all those, so many things that I learnt. I didn't. I was misframing. I have now had
an insight into myself and it's felt quite transformative. It's not over. I still need
to do, I need to act on those insights, I guess. But yeah, that's a really interesting,
like lived experience of basically what he's talking about and how powerful it feels in
my own life. Just to follow up, I definitely want to read the references he's talking about.
I think it's John Wright, where he talks about sensibility transcendence. Because I do remember
him talking about that in Awakening from the Meaning Crisis too, so I might have to retract
that book down. That's interesting too. He talks about how the other person, through
sensibility transcendence, the way you've been framing them, they can start to transcend
how you've been framing them, which is really interesting because that's another way in
which... It's another example of this process of putting a box around things so that we
can understand the world and the ways that locks us in. Because this sensibility transcendence...
This is... John Vivecki talks about framing, the way that we are always framing things
because reality always exceeds our framing of it and we need to create those frames to
be able to exist, to be able to deal with anything. That framing is basically... Doing
that framing is that... Doing that framing is basically the closing, simplifying, clarifying
process that I've been talking about. It's the windows that I was talking about. Those
frames are the windows. The sensibility transcendence is the ways in which your windows are locked...
The way you see somebody through a window, sensibility transcendence is you breaking
that window apart and rebuilding it, making it larger and different so that it sees more
of who a person is because they always exceed your window. Just again, more examples of
the ways that... More examples of the ways in which the world is infinitely complex or
unboundedly complex and we have to frame it and simplify it in order to deal with it,
which I think happens through the process of relevance realisation. We focus on certain
things that appear to be relevant to us, but that can be... We're locking out other things.
That's interesting. So this transframing he's talking about, this basically sensibility
transcendence and the ways that we break down our frames and rebuild them, which is what
we do for ourselves and others in sensibility transcendence, which is this experience I've
basically had with Holly, that's a part of the process and necessary for gaining wisdom
and it's a necessary part of spirituality, which is really quite interesting. I should
probably reflect on that and the ways in which I've experienced this thing are necessary
for the things... For what I want to do in my life, explore spirituality and gain wisdom.
Yeah, and maybe where I'm at now is in some ways enabled, has been enabled by my openness
to breaking frames, although I'm not entirely open of course, but my questioning of things
I think is maybe enabling, making that a bit easier for me. My stance, my worldview, where
I question things and I'm always trying to question myself, I think is maybe leading,
is enabling that to be easier for me than it might be for some other people, which means
I may be on a decent path towards spirituality. And it also means that Socrates probably is
important for me in the Socratic way, because thinking about it, everything he's been talking
about in this episode, this questioning of things, he talks about how Socrates embodies
the kind of the in-betweenness, the outside of the categories. I don't do that, but my
view of things is tending towards that, like I am tending towards questioning of categories
and those sorts of things. That's basically exactly what Socrates did. His whole, his
questioning, his aporia in questioning and all that stuff, that's what, I'm not saying
that I'm doing what Socrates did, but I feel like I'm kind of in the beginnings of the
same ballpark, radically kind of questioning everything, but not entirely in a skeptical
way, but like a breaking, like a nothing's, we can't know anything, but like a breaking,
like constantly not taking necessarily taking things at face value and breaking them down,
starting to break them down and yeah. Of course there's ways in which I'm not doing that and
I think I do get locked on all those sorts of things, but I am in some ways, in some
few small ways, I feel like I am kind of following a bit of a Socratic path already, and I have
for a bit. So Socrates is probably actually quite important to me, which means I really
should probably finish this fucking series. That's an interesting point that he makes,
argument he makes, that stoicism, we can't separate stoicism, Platonism, Neoplatonism
from Socrates and they are seeing a revival in our time, which means that we're really
seeing a revival of Socrates and the point I was getting to is that stoicism is the philosophical
religion or the religious philosophy of internalising Socrates, which I think is quite interesting.
Interesting, so he says that Neoplatonism is the pathway into the deepest levels of
profound learned ignorance, which is what Socrates is seeking, which I think is in a
lot of ways this questioning. This is kind of a powerful point, I'm up to 48 minutes,
he's talking about how we need to internalise Socrates, but we also need to be Socrates
to each other, which is basically, I think, doing what I am arguing for, or what I want,
this way in which I want, I am constantly frustrated by and want people to lean more
towards complexity and questioning and being open. And that kind of sounds like what John
Verbecky's talking about here. That is internalising Socrates and being Socrates for each other.
I think that's a large statement, that's a bold statement, but it does feel a bit appropriate
that this Socratic way of being is kind of what I want myself and other people, it's
what I'm constantly frustrated by other people not seeing. Yeah, interesting. I guess Socrates
embodies that way of being, because he's monstrous, he's a typos, he's Metaxu, he's in between,
he's like an embodiment of the unframed-ness, the inability, the fact that reality escapes
our frames and that we constantly need to be questioning and breaking and rebuilding
our frames to be adapting to the world, the complexity of the world. He's an embodiment
of that and his way is an embodiment, maybe the practice of doing that, internalising
that, but doing that for others, being that for others through, as he's talking about,
he's talking about distributed cognition and the ways in which we can be that for each
other. Interesting. Really interesting, because this is something I care about so much. He's
talking about how the dialogical structure of Plato's dialogues is important because
it's done that way because it, I mean that is the Socratic way, but it's done that way
because it affords, it enables internalisation, which is what he is arguing for and then he
goes on to talk about what internalisation is and that it's a concept from Lev Vygotsky,
who's the guy who came up with this EPD, and this is the whole, like, children, that way
that they have a systematic insight into the way that they are mis-framing things. They
are framing a problem in a particular way, which means they've taken a particular perspective
because that's what framing is. You have taken a particular perspective. Wow, okay. Interesting.
That frame, that window is a perspective. It's perspectival knowing in a lot of ways.
And we have, the child has taken a particular perspective, they've framed the problem in
a particular way, and then the adult has to present a new frame, a new perspective to
them for them to take it on, for them to break their old one end and learn from it and internalise
that new perspective. And that's what the dialogues do. It allows us to internalise,
as the adult is to the sage, as the adult is to the child, the sage is to the adult.
We are the children and Socrates is the adult in the sense of granting us a new, maybe more
transformative, more transcendent perspective that enables us to reframe things. Now, that
is problematic in our way of seeing things, particularly with this feminist informed way
of seeing things because that is also quite patriarchal. If you're telling somebody, "I
am an adult, you're a child, in this situation I'm an adult, you're a child, and I'm going
to come in and try and break up your way of seeing things." It's like it's, maybe it's
necessary but at the same time it's also kind of quite, yeah, it's quite patriarchal, it's
quite, not patriarchal, there's a better term, it's not parochial, it's, they use it in, fuck
what is it? They use it in, like, when talking about government, when a government is very
like, "I know better than you and I'm doing this for your betterment." It's kind of like
what, how the Western world operated through colonialism. So it's been heavily challenged
and we balk at it, we're disgusted by it in a lot of ways but maybe it's also necessary.
That's a hard thing to struggle with. That's a hard, difficult balance. And that's I think
in some ways maybe what was happening in my relationship with Holly is like I felt like
I had a maybe more mature way of seeing some things and Holly was confronted by that because
it is, like, I'm not claiming that that's necessarily the case but that's how I felt
that I wanted her to see things in a different way because I felt like I had a more mature
way of seeing some things. And she felt like I was, like, lecturing her or, you know, like,
yeah. Which is something I learnt, I did learn that that's something that I'm going to have
to deal with and I have to be really careful but I also have to be really sceptical of
that. Like, am I, is that what's happening? Am I doing that? And is that saying that should
be judged? Because I am. You know, it is quite coming in and saying I know better than you.
You should listen to me. It is kind of treating the other person like a child which verges
into misogyny and controlling behaviour and what Molly was talking about the other day
with Ryan and Millie. Hmm. That's going to be a difficult thing. I guess maybe the thing
that makes it a little bit more legitimate is also is not being like I know better. Because
that's not really what Socrates is doing. Socrates is saying I don't really know and you are
acting as if you do and I'm going to question you till we both get to the point where we're
like well fuck, I don't know. And I'm going to leave you with that. I'm going to leave
you in a porio. He's not saying I know a better way. He's saying, he's not coming in saying
I'm going to question you till you don't know what you're talking about and be like you
don't know what you're talking about, I have a better way of listening to this instead.
He's going to come in and be like you have, you're so certain about all of this but should
you be? Because do you really fucking know what you're talking about? And I certainly
don't. So it's not saying I know better than you, it's saying you don't know as much as
you think you do. And I'm not saying I know better and I'm going to try and replace what
you're thinking with what I'm thinking and kind of manipulate and control you, it's yo,
maybe question things a bit basically. You also have to respect people's emotional response
because that's what I experienced with Holly. I was questioning Holly a lot with that stuff
around the stuff to do with pedophilia. I questioned Holly a lot and she felt judged
and she felt like she was being made to feel like she didn't know what she was, like her
experience was being questioned and she didn't know what she was talking about and she was
lesser and some of that was to do with her. But I was definitely, I was really confronting
her but I was also doing it in, I was definitely not doing that in the best way and I was not
respecting her experience of things. So that's a difficult part of it to balance too.
