Um, listening to episode 5, yeah, episode 5 of After Socrates, up to about 15 minutes,
he's going through, basically going through relevance realisation again and explaining
the cost of it and all that kind of stuff.
But he's just explained like, you know, the downside and how that is framing.
This made me realise that the process of simplification that I have been talking about is relevance
realisation.
Because it's framing, that's looking through the window, that's framing, that's relevant,
it is relevance realisation.
So, centralisation is the process of simplifying the world so we can deal with it.
And I guess the tension and the drive towards complexification is the constant need we have
to break our frame, like be fluid with our frame and be willing to break it and make
it better, basically.
Yep.
So, relevance realisation is central to what I'm talking about.
And he's gotten a little bit further and he's mentioning insight.
This made me realise that insight is that process by which we do the complexification, by which
we move from the simplification pole towards the complexification pole, from the closeness
towards the openness.
It would be really interesting to see if the right hemisphere is related at all to insight.
What happens between the right hemisphere and insight?
What happens in the right hemisphere and the left hemisphere during moments of insight?
That would be very interesting.
Six or so minutes in, he's talking about how recursive relevance realisation is pretty
much religio-ratio-religio.
It's the proper proportioning of all of your things, your attention, your memory, all those
things so that you're properly fit, cognitively fitted to your environment.
He says there's a metaphor that he uses in his 2012 paper, which I think is the one about
relevance realisation, the emerging framework in cognitive science, which is that relevance
realisation is to cognition what evolution is to species.
Relevance realisation is a process that shapes and fits organisms to their environment so
that they are adapted to their environment.
Relevance realisation is doing the same thing for you as an individual rather than as your
species.
It is fitting your cognition to your environment.
It's binding you, connecting you to your environment, which is what he means when he says religio.
That's what religio is.
It's that connectedness to your environment.
Oh, my chest, Jesus Christ.
It's interesting in that that heavily points to meaning as well because that's kind of
where what meaning is.
Meaning is relationships.
Meaning is bindedness, connectedness.
He says what's evolving in relevance realisation is the sensory motor loop of an individual
organism.
He says this sensory motor loop is constantly running in your behaviour.
You sense in order to move that as you move, it changes what you sense.
As that updated changed sense, then change how you can move.
I think embodied cognitive scientists would probably, some of them would probably, and
I think John probably would argue that a lot of this stuff that we do, this higher, quote
unquote higher level, higher order stuff like rationality and thinking and representation
and categorisation and all those things is actually built off of that basic physical
motor sensory motor interaction with the world.
That sensory motor loop, how you sense changing, like sensing so you can move, which changes
so you move, which changes how you sense, which changes how you can move.
That is how you are bound to your environment.
It's how you're bound to the world.
It's how you're connected to the world.
That's religio.
You are connected to the world through the sensory motor loop which occurs through relevance
realisation happening in your participatory and perspectival knowledge.
He says relevance realisation, what it's doing is constantly adapting that sensory motor
loop, which is your connectedness to the environment, to the world, which is in some way meaning,
is constantly adapting that so that you're fitted to, you're cognitively fitted to your
environment.
I think means that really attention is central to intelligence.
It's essential to your ability to be an agent and it's central to, in some ways I guess,
meaning and meaningfulness.
He's talking about how one of the things you need to do to exist, to continue to function
as an agent, is to constantly adapt and change your level of arousal.
Not sexual arousal but your metabolic arousal.
How much energy you're pouring into things basically.
If you're, like he gives the example of being too energetic in a situation, too aroused,
yelling and stuff and people are saying, "Calm down John," and then he calms down really,
really, really hard, which is too much.
He talks about, "Well, okay, well if that's the case, if it's not too high, not too low,
should you always be middling?"
And he says, "Well no, not that either because then that means if you're getting attacked
by a tiger, you're not going to have the appropriate amount of energy to survive.
Just walk away rather than freaking the fuck out and running.
But also if you're middling, you won't fall asleep.
Because to fall asleep, you need to wind down your arousal level.
So we need to find the appropriate level of arousal for the situation we are in and that
your situation you're in is constantly changing.
That's what relevance realisation is doing.
It's constantly based on the situation, the context you are in, it is adapting you to
that environment, adapting you to that context, to that situation, basically.
To that place, at that time, that specific situation you're in, in that particular place
with those particular people and that person you are right then, which is exactly how it's
extr- it's completely contextual, which is exactly how meaning works.
Meaning is contextual.
It occurs in a single place, in a single context, in a single specific situation with a single
you, in a single moment.
That's how- that's where meaning exists.
It doesn't exist in the abstract generalised.
It exists in individual single moments.
Highly contextual.
And this is the really important part.
He says the way that you get that, the way you get that ratio religio, that constantly-
the relevance realisation, the constantly adapting fit- cognitive fittedness to your
specific situation that is happening right now that's constantly updating and correcting
itself, the way you get that, in this case of arousal, is through a opponent processing
relationship between your parasympathetic and your sympathetic nervous systems.
So again, yet again, you get that unity of opposites.
You get the- that Heraclitus talks about this dichotomy, this tension point, navigating
this tension point between poles, between in a trade-off relationship and constantly having
to- to- to- going through a process of- of navigating that.
And that's the same pattern that plays out everywhere, constantly.
The tension between simplification and complexification.
It's the same thing.
It just keeps happening.
It just keeps- that pattern happens again and again and again and again.
There are other examples like between the tension between- the opponent processing- the tension
relationship between- opponent processing, well, tension- a tension relationship between
exploitation of where you are and exploration of new things and situations and places.
And there's a tension between that and we are constantly navigating those- those poles.
And neither is better than the other.
And that's the thing.
All of these cases, you know, the individual and the collective, neither is better than
the other.
We need both.
Both are important in different situations and it's about finding the right balance for
that moment, for that situation, for that time.
Which means that there's no final- like if there was a final answer it would be the same
as saying, "Well, you should just always be X."
It's a constantly updating, evolving process.
And that's what relevant realisation is.
That's what ratio religio is.
In some ways what we need is, you know, in terms of like, you know, dealing with the
difficulty of, you know, trading off between the individual and the collective.
That's something we are constantly struggling with on a societal level.
We need a way to efficiently and effectively navigate that process.
And we don't.
We get locked into one or the other for hundreds of years or decades at least and it has massive
effects and so we're not fitted to the environment as a society.
We are constantly not fitted to our- our society is not fitted to our environment at all.
It goes fucking way off.
Because, you know, but we also can't have a final answer.
Even if right, you know, at a particular point individual versus, you know, in the scale
of individual versus collective this point we get to is exactly right for that moment
and that time.
The moment and time will change.
Conditions will change and it needs to be updated but we don't.
We get stuck there.
Yeah, holy shit.
Fuck.
This is also related.
This pattern.
Like, this is the things, the three core things I was talking about in my worldview.
Existence as a process, existence as infinitely complex and existence as constantly caught
between two poles, navigating a tension between two poles and a trade-off relationship.
With neither being better or worse than the other we need both in different situations
and different times and different places.
They're both important and we need to find the right balance of each.
Yes, this opponent processing relationship plays out in all so many different scales.
In so many different places it seems to be central, you know, between, on a societal
scale between the individual and the collective.
Between progression, you know, progressiveness and tradition.
You know, on an individual scale between all of the things that John Verbecky lays out
on a relevance realisation within the individual basically.
And how this connects to meaning, I hope it gets more explicit into how it connects to
meaning and meaningfulness and all those sorts of things.
Yeah, also an important point, it's very, very related but I don't know if this is really
all that necessary but when talking about the sympathetic versus the parasympathetic
system he's talking about how, he talks about how each of those systems is biased in a particular
direction.
The sympathetic system is biased towards arousal and to view things as threats and to respond
as such and the parasympathetic system is biased towards seeing things as safe and powering
down and those two systems are completely interlinked and related and they're constantly
like battling with each other basically to influence you and the state you're in is actually
the combined thing between them.
It's the state in between those two, it's the pull of the bow etc etc.
And that's the way all of these things are, wherever you are it's always in a state between
these two biased poles, the left hemisphere and the right hemisphere.
The left hemisphere is biased towards, to pay attention towards close individual categorical
attention versus large scale big picture open attention.
And the state you're in is, and they're both biased towards those and the state you're
in is the state in between those that's constantly adapting as each gains less or more influence
over you to pull you more towards its direction.
It's the same thing again and again and again and again and again.
Tradition and progress.
Exploitation versus exploration.
The left hemisphere versus the right hemisphere.
Efficiency versus resiliency.
Again and again and again and again.
It's the same fucking thing.
That is the centrist position, the centrist position that you're not a progressive, you're
not a traditionalist or conservative, neither is better than the other just in a general
sense.
They are both necessary, they're both important and we need each in two different degrees
in different situations.
The problem on a societal scale is that different individuals have different biases towards
one or the other basically.
I think this relevance realisation theory has a great, like has massive implications
for government and governance and political science and governing theory and all of those
sorts of things.
Social relationships and social organisation, it could revolutionise fucking political philosophy
and political science.
If neither thing is good or bad but we need different amounts in different situations
and contexts, how do we do that on a societal scale when we're trying to create a society
that works as much as possible for everyone but different people have different preferences
for different things and they are biased towards one direction or another.
An important point as well with the sympathetic system that he says is it's not just threat,
it's opportunity and threat because you can still be aroused towards opportunity.
Get your metabolism going so that you can grasp this opportunity.
Get down this deer etc.
Another important point, each of those systems, each of those, like the parasympathetic system
and the sympathetic nervous system, they are both framing the world in a different way
and your frame is the balance between them.
Really your frame is the balance between those and all of the other poles that are all interacting
simultaneously.
So to fully quote him, putting biases into trade-off relationships is how your arousal
is constantly getting fitted to the world.
Another important part, directly after that he says that's how it fits you to the environment,
that's how you are fitted to the environment.
This constant push and pull between two biased systems or a spectrum that are in a trade-off
relationship.
That's how it happens and it doesn't need to have a little mean in your head that does
a calculation.
It doesn't need to, it is essentially, which is, that means it is emergent and self-organising.
It's a complex emergent behaviour or system or thing that happens without having to have
any conscious planning, doesn't have to be set up, it just emerges out of the situation
and is constantly adapting to that situation, so constantly emerging, constantly emerging
and updating.
It's a really important link, particularly for this series, opponent processing.
We can see dialectic into dialogos as opponent processing, not adversarial processing where
each side is trying to crush the other, but opponent processing where you have two different
sides that are biased towards different directions but that are interrelated and that are, that
are pushing and pulling on each other to arrive at a new point, a new balanced point in the
middle.
Not in the middle, but two people who are servicing, are serving as sources of self-correction
for each other.
They are both committed to coming up with something that fits.
That's really powerful.
It fits the world, not just fits.
Really interesting neurologically, so he's talking about attention and the, this is the
trade-off between exploration and exploitation.
Well actually no, this might be a different thing.
He's talking about your attention drifting away versus your attention focusing.
And he says in the brain the attention is probably associated with the drifting away
part of your attention, that pole is probably associated with the, so yeah it's called the
default mode network.
That's what's associated, like probably he says, associated with mind wandering and drifting
and daydreaming.
You have another network, a work which is called the task-focused network, which is
what is pushing you to focus.
Obviously you don't want to be completely rigid in one or the other because if you are
always completely focused you wouldn't notice new things.
Other things you would only, you would get stuck on the thing you're paying attention
to and not be able to pull away from it.
And if you were always noticing different things and daydreaming you would never be
able to focus on anything.
So you need that relation, you need the opponent processing relationship between them.
This opponent processing relationship is exactly like evolution.
Mind wandering introduces variation so you get new things popping up, new things you're
paying attention to, new thoughts, new etc.
And then you have the focusing which is pruning off some of those and focusing on particular
things that the other one produces.
So the mind wandering produces different ways that you could kind of relate to the environment
and then the focused network then kills off most of those and selects a few which then
go on to shape your sensory motor loop.
And I'd be really interested to see if there's any relationship between these two networks,
these two parts, the pole and the left and right hemisphere.
