still on episode 4, near the end of the lecture part, about an hour or so in, of Vafta Socrates.
And he's talking about the work of Drew Hyland and somebody, Kirkland, who are authors who
are working in the third wave of Platonic scholarship that he's talking about. And one
of them has a book called Finitude and Transcendence. And in that book, this is the interesting
bit, in that book they strongly critique Heidegger for a misinterpretation of Plato, which is
something I, not so much a misinterpretation, but basically Heidegger says and sees Plato
as having basically like the path to subjective, the vibe between subjective and objective,
and the path towards nihilism that kind of has taken place in the Western tradition.
Heidegger believes, says that started with Plato. And Dreyfus calls on that too when
he talks about Plato and his theory of forms and how since the ancient Greeks we have kind
of seen things as theories, and that's kind of where this emphasis on the propositional
has really started and then just kind of built from there. And John says that you can see
the same thing playing out in the post-Heideggerian, post-modernists, who are kind of following
Heidegger's work, and they have this interpretation of Plato as basically getting, starting us
off in that trap of the propositional. And he says, he gives a particular author, but
it's the guy who wrote Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance, apparently draws on
that same thing. He has that same Heideggerian interpretation of Plato as, which I think
in some ways actually comes from Nietzsche, to be honest, because I think I seem to recall
Nietzsche saying something like that about Plato, and I know Heidegger drew on Nietzsche
a bit. But, yeah, it makes me interested in that book, both for the Heideggerian part
and for the commentary on Plato. But obviously, yeah, they are arguing that these authors
and John through them, using them, are arguing that everything this series has been so far
has been about how that's actually not what Plato, you know, Plato is actually deeply
interested and respectful of and trying to wake people up to the non-propositional. And
that's a deep misinterpretation by Heidegger and everybody who's drawn on him since.
So, just saying, so moments later he basically says, yeah, it's really interesting that it's,
he says it's amazing that Heidegger takes this really, a lot of care with the pre-Socratics.
He takes a lot of, you know, he dives really deep into the etymology of words and really
cares about uncovering things, but doesn't do that with Plato at all. He just takes a
completely standard view that the dialog, the dialogical nature of the work isn't important,
you know, that Socrates is, Plato's mouthpiece, that Socrates isn't, the Socrates that's in
those isn't actually Socrates, it's just Plato using Socrates for a purpose, etc, etc. So
yeah, that's interesting. I actually really want to read this book.
So interesting. There's another book he mentions. I can't, this is all around the same, it's
like a string of the same stuff, around the same time period in the thing, but he's talking
about how Heidegger apparently starts off being really enamoured with Plato, but then
it kind of takes a complete 180, but it doesn't really seem to be based on any argumentation,
he doesn't really give much reason for it, it seems to be based on his own interpretation
maybe of himself and where he's at or something. Yeah, interesting.
I want to do this because he's talking about how Kirkland or Highland, I think it's Drew
Highland, uses a Heideggerian phenomenological approach to the dialogues and to Plato and
the ontology underlying those things, which is what John Vivecki's talking about here,
it's the reciprocal relationship between how dialogue, the world becomes intelligible and
we become more intelligible to ourselves and how that's like a relationship between those
two things. And he draws on the notion that the Greek word that Heidegger used of alethea,
truth as unveiling I think, uncovering, something like that. This is really interesting, so
as he gets into, this is probably the important point, really important part to me, as he's
getting into alethea, he explains what alethea is, it's unconcealment, it's hard to explain,
I don't quite really understand it, what he means by it, but it's like the primal
and primordial revealing that underlies truth as representation, truth as correspondence,
makes subjective experience possible, but the important part about it is he says there's
another part to alethea that as things are revealed, as something is unconcealed, something
else necessarily has to be concealed, which means that alethea is by its ontological nature
bounded, it is a frame. Yeah, I haven't got to the point where he explains why that is
or how that is, why that, yeah that has to happen, why that concealment has to happen
when something else is unconcealed, but that is the whole fucking point, like that's, that
is my entire fucking argument that reality is infinitely complex and that we can only
ever interact with our experience or partake in a part of it at a time and that's necessarily
a process of putting a box around, constructing a box around it, and that's built into the
primordial, at the participatory level, way that we know things through alethea. And I
only half understand what the fuck he's talking about, but I can see this kind of connection
there that that, that reveal that makes it, that to me makes it pretty clear that alethea
and in some ways Heidegger's work on truth and stuff that's built off of that and probably
this Finitude and Transcendence book by Drew Highland is clearly quite important to the
project I'm interested in. So I might have to read that book. Okay, this is really important.
This is an important source to draw on, so this is the very beginning of episode 5 of
After Socrates. This episode's on finite transcendence, finitary transcendence, Finitude, yeah, finite
and transcendence. Finite and transcendence, that's the name, finite and transcendence.
And he's talking about Czerniak's book, so give me a moment, I'm going to listen to it.
So Czerniak's book, apparently famous book, called Minimal Rationality, in that book he
talks about how we are stuck in the problem of, the problem of finitude? The finitary
predicament, that's it. We are stuck in the finitary predicament. And he starts off talking
about how Czerniak is talking about how if we're talking about rationality we need to
have a normative theory, how we should behave so that we can reason well. So he draws on
the distinction between thick terms and thin terms. I think from what I'm understanding
is thin terms are words that can be either descriptive or normative, they can be one
or the other. It's just used to describe something like fat. Fat would be a thin term. Or, because
it's purely descriptive, it's not normative, it's purely descriptive. Or, I don't know
what a normative thin term would be, I can't really think of one, but he says a thick term
is one that has to be both descriptive and normative. So he says, when we say someone
is rational, when we talk about rationality, we are both giving a description and we are
also, it's a normative thing, we're also saying this is what somebody should be aspiring to.
We have to have a theory of what rationality is, which although I don't know if that relates
to it being, this is what he says next, but I don't know if that relates to it being a
description, we have to have a theory of what rationality is for it to be normative, I think.
I might have misunderstood that. I've missed a few bits here. I'm brain-strung to wrap
my head around all of this, but he says being rational is about paying attention to the
right things at the right time.
