I'm up to about 34 minutes into, although he really starts talking about about 33 minutes,
I think, into episode 2 of After Socrates.
And he's talking about how... fuck it, I keep getting lost in the part of what he's talking
about.
If you listen to that bit again and you'll know what he's talking about.
But it's prompted me to think that a lot of how we classify success, you know, a lot of
the way we live our lives is about completion.
Having a full grasp of something, having a final understanding, coming to a conclusion,
having something settled, completing a goal and moving on.
And all of that is at odds with this open-ended complexity of... I keep coming back to complexity
and it's not quite... it is what it is, but it's not quite the right word.
This open-ended, unbounded nature of reality is at odds with this completionist... you know,
ticking things off, finishing your goals, all those kinds of things.
And that way of doing things, that focus on objectives and goals and all of those things,
that's... it seems like a left hemisphere, a very left hemispheric way of interacting
with the world.
It's about control, it's about meeting goals, it's about, you know, control... having the
resources you need to survive, those kinds of things.
All of that stuff.
And that does really kind of feel like it led some credence to Ian McGilchrist's idea
that we have become kind of... almost our society has become hijacked by the left hemisphere
as in it's kind of taken over because a lot of our measures of success, a lot of the way
we live our lives, is hyper-focused on this finalistic, closed, completed way of being.
Focus on detail and completeness and not an openness in questioning.
We actually generally find that very uncomfortable.
And capitalism leads pretty much directly into this hyperproductive... you know, that
it's wrapped up in productivity and the capitalist way of being.
Yeah.
Interesting.
I'm gonna play what he says just to have an recording here on what I'm responding to here,
where my thoughts are coming from.
Challenges all of us.
Taking your question and making it deeper on your behalf.
It does not give us resolution in the sense of completion and fadiso of the diologos.
Cultivating this learned ignorance is wonderful.
He's talking here about Socrates' whole... you know, saying that unexamined life is not
worth living in that... the diologos, this questioning of things is... which is really
exploring that openness.
I guess it's delving into that unboundedness.
This is him talking about Socrates saying that that's the best thing one can do, that
is the best part of life, that is what we should be trying to do.
The whole wonder-filled learned ignorance is the best activity that human beings can
engage in.
It's the best kind of life.
But how?
How could a practice that is so frequently frustrating...
This is the important bit.
A practice that is so frequently frustrating.
It goes at odds with our... this is the way that we deal with things now.
This is the way we... what we expect out of things, what he's about to say.
It does not produce conclusions.
It does not produce clear answers.
It does not give us resolution in the sense of completion and finality.
Resolution, completion, finality, answers, conclusions.
That is often what we seek.
That's kind of the way we live our lives is completion, finalisation, etc.
And also, this is making me realise, this is also the issue I sometimes have with the
analytical focus on the... maybe over-focus on clarity.
Because that clarity is usually... it's like trying to come to a final conclusion on something.
It's making things as clear as possible.
Putting them into a well-defined... defining them as well as good, as well as possible.
Putting them into as well-defined a box as possible in order to reach some final conclusion.
Maybe that's an overstatement, reaching a final conclusion.
And that analytical end, like what Ryan focuses on in his way of doing philosophy, and his
kind of... what he seems to be focused on a lot is this clarity.
And I respect that because that is a very powerful tool that we need.
But I am, I think, more interested in the other side.
The questioning and the exploration and the tearing our neat boxes and categories apart
that comes with the other side of things, which is so much harder to deal with.
So much harder to grasp, so much harder to know what to do with.
Because it's the antithesis of that.
We need to have a clear... we need to have a category, we need to have a clear idea of
something before we can know what to do with it.
When it's just this fizzy, fuzzy, chaotic, open stuff.
What do you... how do you think about that?
What do you do with it?
But that's actually what I'm really interested in.
Because my sense is that that's more... that's closer to how reality actually is.
Maybe that's more like what reality is.
In clarity is us creating a box around it, which doesn't delegitimize those things.
And it also doesn't mean that those... that isn't... the thing I'm trying to do with it
at the moment is... can both of those be real?
Can both of those be true?
You know, when we create these boxes and these categories, are they real?
Are they just as real as the fizzy, fuzzy, unboundedness of reality?
Are both real?
Is one more real than the other?
Can both things be true at the same time?
But yeah, this is... this thing I've been struggling with is being able to express my...
I've often, you know, reading a lot of analytical stuff in discussion and argument and... not
really argument, but discussion with Ryan, I have often felt this... some feeling...
I can't quite put my finger on, but a feeling based on loosely held ideas of a bit of discomfort
and a desire to disagree and push back against Ryan when he talks about clarity.
So like he... it's like his focus, he focuses on clarity.
And I think this explains that desire to push back against that.
In some ways, it's where my sometimes bordering on this Dane for analytical philosophy stems
from.
Yeah, that I think that this search for clarity and detail sometimes it is kind of, I think,
the process of putting a box around things, which doesn't mean it's necessarily simplifying
because in a lot of times compared to that, when it's unclear, when clarifying things
actually is often a very complex process and it makes things very complex, there's more
things, pieces to hold in your head and more parts to understand than this kind of nebulous
stuff.
So maybe simplification isn't quite the correct answer, quite the correct term.
It often does lead to simplification, but not always, maybe.
Openness and closeness is maybe... or concluded and open, I don't know, something like that
is maybe a better term for it.
And I am personally more interested in that openness.
But at the same time, I also have to recognise that that openness does also lead to exactly
what the clarity is trying to fight against, which is bad unstructured thinking, bad thinking,
bad ideas, stuff that's really hard to engage with.
We do need both.
That's the thing.
We do need structure and clarity and all of those things.
But I think we also need a constant pressure pushing back against that because that definition
and that conclusion will always, I think, almost always never... it will never be final.
It will always... some part of nebulosity, or the nebulosity of reality will fall outside
of it, I think.
Yeah, fuck.
All right, now I'm going to go back to what he was saying.
How could that be worth dying for?
It sounds like an utter waste of time at best and endlessly annoying and frustrating and
undermining of all of our projects.
How could that be?
How could that be?
Savour that question because I've actually returned to the question you asked a few minutes
ago and I've made it deeper on your behalf.
By the way, that's me exemplifying soccer balls, making your question and making it deeper
on your behalf.
Take that question in, savour it, let it roll around in your mind.
I'm going to go back to what he was saying.
I'm going to go back to what he was saying.
I'm going to go back to what he was saying.
I'm going to go back to what he was saying.
I'm going to go back to what he was saying.
I'm going to go back to what he was saying.
I'm going to go back to what he was saying.
I'm going to go back to what he was saying.
I'm going to go back to what he was saying.
I'm going to go back to what he was saying.
I'm going to go back to what he was saying.
Try to feel into its monstrous challenge.
Think about how it challenges all of our assumptions, how it crashes into so many of our presuppositions
about success and purpose and achieving your goals and completion, consummation, conclusion
and how all of these are so central to a good life.
That question about Socrates just smashes into all of that monstrously.
That's the most important bit right there.
That's a really good outline, I think, of how, and I think an indication of the closeness
of our way of being currently.
Getting into some really wishy-washy terms here, I don't really know how else to talk
about it.
Rather than saying the left brain or the having mode, because I need to explore those things
more before I associate them, although I have a pretty strong feeling around that they are
associated, but rather than saying left brain or having mode or simplified.
For now, I'm not happy with it entirely, but I'm going to use closeness, openness and closeness.
I'm going to use the closeness of our way of being in this kind of modern capitalist
life we find ourselves in and the historical what has led to that.
So many of the things that I know, and I know that I myself do too, personally struggle
with struggles around feelings of purposelessness and the need to be productive and the need
to achieve things and make progress and tick off goals and all of those things.
Honestly, things that are some of the biggest problems I've been facing in my life for the
last, for my outer life basically.
Some of the things that I've consistently recurrently come back to, I am always grappling
with and I think in some ways that all the stuff I'm interested in directly ties into
all of that.
But yeah, that I think which makes me care even more about this whole simplification
versus complexification tension, this closeness versus openness.
Because it also directly, I'm starting to feel like it directly leads into some of the
things that we personally, all of us personally, not all of us, that's overstating.
I feel like it is most of us, but I know I personally and a lot of people in my life
are personally struggling with, and based on the internet, a lot of people are struggling
with this hyper-rationalist, I don't know, I'm using the wrong words, I don't know what
the right words are, this hyper-focus on closeness and completion and productivity and efficiency
and clear answers and clarity and all of those things.
Some of those may be misapplied, but yeah, this stuff is intimately tied up with some
of the deep struggles we are having, I think.
Which I do think is related in a lot of ways to E. McGilchrist's stuff about the left hemispheric
way of seeing the emissary and how it's kind of taken over.
His historical analysis of that and what John Pavecki talks about with the having mode and
the being mode and how we've forgotten the being mode and we're trapped, existentially
trapped in the having mode, which is the left hemispheric mode, which is that closeness.
I'm linking things there that I need to think a lot more about, but I definitely feel like
there's strong connections.
One extra note, this closered way of being, this desire for clarity and completion, I
think... Oh, little baby, little baby pluvvy, please don't attack me through my windows.
I think this desire, I think it is a pretty consistent desire we have, but it's a desire
we have for ourselves and other people to be consistent.
If somebody says something, we want them to continue to hold that point of view.
We want them to not hold multiple different points of view and act on both of them because
that's just... It's like, how do we deal with that? That's just confusing and inconsistent
and hypocritical.
Whereas people like Nietzsche, and I think maybe it sounds like maybe Socrates, call
that into question a bit, I think.
Yeah.
I think that's wrapped up in reason because rationality and the traditional idea of rationality
and reason, they desire, they're a fight for consistency.
That's what the whole age of reason is about rather than these inconsistent wishy-washy
things you're getting out of religion for why we're doing anything.
We're doing things because for some consistent reason that we are arriving at using evidence
through our reasoning abilities.
So consistency is tied up in the whole project of modernism and through the whole... Kind
of tied up in the whole modern project, basically.
[silence]
