So he talks about, this is 44 minutes in, he's still going on about the non-propositional
stuff. So it's a non-propositional, is religio, religio, religio, whatever it is, which is
the root of the word religion, which basically means to bind together, and he says that meaning
in life is religio with yourself, others, and the world. It's that connectedness, that
bindedness that comes from participatory knowing. He says wisdom is about ratio, which is putting
things into the proper proportion. So, ratio, religio, putting that bindedness in connection
into a proper proportion. Talking about how ratio is also the root of rationing and rationality,
he says when you're rationing, you're properly proportioning things to fit the reality of
the situation. When there's not much food, you have to ration the food out to fit reality.
So it's related to that connectedness to reality. He says rationality is the proper proportioning
of your affect, your energy, I don't think he says energy, but your affect, your energy,
your responses, I think, and the four kinds of, proper thing of the four kinds of knowing
to the world. His rationality is the proper proportioning of those things, your attention,
your energy, your affect, your four kinds of knowing, so that your religio, your bindedness
to the world, to yourself, to others, is not torn apart by self-deception and self-destruction.
So he's basically equating rationality with an ecology of practices, I think. It's that
attempt to escape the, or attempt, it's proper proportioning of things in order to avoid
the self-deception that is built into our experience of the world because of our need
to frame things to deal with infinite complexity.
[music]
