Again, I'm not really going to talk about it, just a note to come back and listen to
and look at, like a notable point. About 18 minutes into our episode 9 of After Socrates,
episode called Metanoia, he's talking about Antisthenes, who is the other major disciple
of Socrates. And basically, Antisthenes is basically talking about the imp, the imp,
the imp, the, what is it, not the impossibility, the, give me a sec, the futility of logical
discourse. I think that's something worth thinking about, listening to a little bit
more, listening to again, and maybe reading a little bit of Antisthenes about, and this
book that John Vivehi's drawing on here, Susan Blackmore or something like that. Also two
other things to note, Antisthenes is the first person to give a definition of the Logos,
and also apparently Heraclitus talks about the Logos a lot, despite never, although he
never gives a definition of it. 24 minutes, about 24 minutes and 30 seconds or so in,
he starts actually talking about Heraclitus and a little bit of the relationship between
Antis, like, idea-wise, relationship between Heraclitus and Antisthenes. This is an important
part too, 27 minutes. He notes how Antisthenes, Antisthenes' issues with Plato's quote-unquote
theory of the forms, specifically because of the timeless abstract, logical nature of
how they are taken to be. He has a problem with that.
So at about 39 minutes into episode 9 of After Socrates, he's talking about Antisthenes'
three training regimes, I guess. And he's saying that the third thing that he trained
was basically resistance to shame. And I think this is really interesting and important,
and it links to what I was thinking about. Brené Brown and Mark Manson's work on vulnerability
and shame. Well, sorry, particularly Brené Brown's work on shame and how our culture
is very shame-based at the moment, etc., etc. And John talks about that a little bit too,
about how our culture is bent on shaming people. Talking about how this practice was supposed
to be designed to make you resistant to shame. 54 minutes, he goes into it a bit more and
connects it to purity codes and convention. How shame is used to basically control our
behaviour, nudge our behaviour towards convention, essentially.
