I'm not sure if I already talked about this, I don't think I really did.
Not as directly as this anyway.
But, um...
I'm coming to the conclusion, or coming to the idea,
that I think this tension between complexification and simplification
for... between...
which is in some ways, er, as...
Complexification and simplification aren't the right word.
Things happen as part of the... of those two processes.
But it's more like...
Simplification sounds too pejorative for one.
It... it kind of does necessarily involve simplification, but it's...
It's like clarification?
It's...
It's... I think maybe in some ways it's the left brain versus right brain thing.
It's... that having mode versus the being mode.
It's...
putting something in a box, knowing... knowing what it is,
how... how to act towards it, how to be towards it,
knowing what you can do with it, knowing what it means.
Um...
Yeah, it's...
It's like saying, "I've got this. I have this.
I've got you."
As for a person, you're... "I get you. I understand you."
Which means...
You actually...
You actually don't.
You have some element of... you understand some element of them.
Um...
Ah...
Yes, it's these two necessary...
Fucking hell, so much wind.
These two necessary poles.
It's a tension between these two poles,
and it's... it's a tension precisely because we need both sides.
We need to do... they're both important and necessary.
And we are having to constantly balance...
We're constantly having to balance the trade-off between those two.
I'll go more into the details around the specifics later,
but... of what each of these things are and my thoughts on it,
but I'm... the important point here is that I am coming...
I think coming to realise that, um...
this tension and the ways and the importance of it
and the ways that it shows up in our lives
and in our personal lives and in our society,
recurrently, I think that might be my...
my most... I don't know if any other people
have probably talked about it to some extent,
but I don't know if I've ever seen anybody talk about it
the way I'm thinking entirely about it,
the way I'm thinking about it...
entirely talk about it the way I'm thinking about it.
I think that might be the contribution I can make.
It's the contribution I care about the most,
because, you know, this is actually at the core of
what I have been so passionate about for so long,
you know, what... the thing I've always wanted...
I've always framed it as, like, I want to...
I don't like the way that people talk to each other,
I don't like the discourse around things
and the way that people kind of always go one way, you know...
they go into extremes one way or the other.
Um...
and they don't see each other as the point of view.
Life since I was young, since I've been a child,
I've been frustrated by that, and that's probably, like,
at the root of almost everything I care about.
And that, at its root, is actually this process,
simplification versus complexification.
I wish people would be more complete with "complexify" more,
but people tend to simplify.
Um...
yeah.
[sighs]
And...
that connects to so many things that I'm interested in, and...
[wind blowing]
It connects to the unbounded complexity of reality,
it connects to... I mean, that's actually the unbounded complexity of reality,
it's actually a necessary thing for this.
Um... it connects to the tension between opposites,
it connects to the reality as a dynamic process,
because it's constantly... those two poles are constantly shifting.
Um...
yeah, I think maybe actually...
I think maybe actually
I should focus on this first, before anything else on it.
I mean, it does grow out of the unbounded complexity,
I kind of need to show the unbounded complexity before I can really talk about this.
I think this might be, actually,
the thing that I care about the most amongst all of you,
and have forever,
for almost my entire life, and I'm now realizing, putting those pieces together.
And I think it's... I am talking about it in a way that...
I haven't really... the specifics of how I'm talking about it,
and thinking about it, I haven't really seen anybody else talking about it.
[wind blowing]
Um...
I mean, John Feckin does kind of mention it a little bit when he's talking about
the tension between generalizing and the opponent processing,
or the tension between generalizing and particularizing.
Which is in some ways
the same as this.
This may be a particular manner of thinking of it, but he kind of just used it as a
one-off example. Not as a point, whereas this is
the central point.
It connects to the ethical stuff
about...
...doing this, having to do this process.
Um...
...that we all constantly have to face
and deal with.
And this tension between understanding things and approaching
reality where it is, is so vital.
[wind blowing]
Yeah. [wind blowing]
Yeah, I guess at its core, it's the fact that we are always
caught in this... caught
in between trying to get a grasp on things, which means
clarifying them, simplifying them, categorizing them,
and trying to... and being open to
things and the reality of things. And we have a tendency
I think maybe it's just human nature, or maybe it's
um...
...as Iain McGilchrist talks about, is becoming
increasingly prevalent over time. We have a tendency towards the
clarification and simplification side of things, rather than the openness side of things.
Openness to the complexities of reality.
