I have started to think a bit about desire.
Sexual desire, but maybe more general than that.
Maybe just desire in general, but definitely showing up at the moment as, in my thoughts as, and thinking as sexual desire.
Um, my thoughts are a bit jumbled about this.
Um, but I started thinking about it after, the thing that really kind of got me thinking about it was, um,
for example how I've been feeling about Molly, Sarah's friend Molly.
I am looking for, I'm currently trying to develop my friendship with her.
We've been together for a while but we haven't really been super close. We've never really had a conversation, just the two of us kind of thing.
And, um,
I feel a bit sick at the moment actually. Yeah, I've been. So I'm having this dichotomy basically, in my feeling and thinking around Molly, towards Molly, about Molly.
Whatever. Um, where I'm trying to build a friendship with her.
I went and had morning tea/breakfast with her the other day. Sunday just gone I think, about a couple of days ago.
Three or four days ago. Um, and it was really nice.
I felt, um, she was easy to talk to. We basically pretty much just talked about our mutual breakups. Basically.
She basically turned up and I started talking about Holly and then, um, after I talked about that for a bit she ended up talking about, um,
uh, scrub and that stuff. Our relationship with him and how that ended and what all went down and how she felt about things.
This is not funny, it's really hard at the moment. My guts are really distracting me.
It was slightly like I'm going to vomit, but it feels like my guts have like filled up, up into my throat.
I think it's because these milky boys, these up and goes I'm drinking, are milky ones. They're not lactose free ones.
It's making it very hard to concentrate on what I'm thinking about. Might just leave it to be earthed, I'll go back to it.
Just a quick note before my guts stop me from talking. Um, I'm listening to episode two of After Socrates at the moment.
I'm up to 27 minutes, 27 minutes and 51 seconds precisely. Um, probably just before that.
I'm talking about, John Vivecki's talking about how love, love, um, basically how love you never, you've never got the other person in their entirety.
Which is another example of that unbounded complexity. You know, because another person is always greater than you, than how you can frame them.
They always exceed your framing. Um, so love and, you know, where you can have known somebody for years and, you know, been with somebody for 10 years and they do something that surprises you.
Um, because humans are dynamically, incredibly dynamically complex and there's so much we don't know.
And we can never know everything about a person. Every person is a, is a unboundedly complex, um, thing of potentials and, and we, we necessarily create a box around them to understand them.
And again, it's, it's, it's that exact same dynamic. The tension between simplifying and complexifying.
Simplifying so we can understand and deal with it. Complexifying so that we can let it be as it actually is.
Um, you know, we, we, we think we understand another person, but we are really just create, you know, they will always exceed our understanding.
And we are creating, but in thinking we understand them, we're creating it. We have created a box around them to explain them to ourselves.
To, to be able to grasp them and interact with them in a, in a familiar way, basically.
Actually, love is a really good example of this process of, of this process and tension between simplification and complexification and, you know, between categorization and, and feeling like you know and understand something and, and thus being able to interact with and manipulate it, manipulate it in the, in the non-pejorative sense.
The actual sense of manipulate.
You know, when, so you, you know what it is and how to act towards it and what to do with it and, and how, yeah.
But also, you know, if you do that too much in a relationship, you are trapping that person in a box. You're, you're not seeing them for who they are and they will know that and they will resent it and it will probably damage the relationship.
So, TL;DR, love and relationships are actually really good examples of, really good applied practical examples that, you know, almost everyone has lived experience of, of this dynamic of the tension between simplification and complexification and, and another example of the unbounded complexity of things.
And yes, you know, in some ways people are, in a lot of ways, all the same. You know, like that, that stuff that those categorization things that Jaden learnt about with, at Apple or whatever it was, Concentrix, those like categorizations they taught people.
Those are valid to an extent because there are ways in which everybody is the same and we can kind of group people, but those are always, and we can use those and that's fine, but we have to understand that that's not their totality.
And that's, again, an example of the complexification versus simplification.
Think is an example of less hemisphere versus right hemisphere, having mode versus being mode.
