I believe I was talking previously about how, or maybe I was just thinking this, about how,
it was about paternalism, although it came up in, when I was looking earlier today, I
was looking at the Wikipedia entry on the ethics of care and how paternalism can come
up as part of that. But I was also thinking about how, yeah, that's right, I was relating
it to Ryan and Millie, and this kind of, as the sages to the, as the sages to the, as
the adult is to the child, the sages to the adult, and how we rewrite the balance between
kind of teaching other people, or being Socrates for other people, while also not being paternalistic.
And I think the important point that John Vivecki makes here is that when the child
is learning from the adult, they're doing that because the adult's perspective is deeper
and more penetrating in a way that it includes but transcends the child's perspective, because
the adult has gone through that same process. They have had that perspective at one point,
and they've grown through it and passed it, which means that they have, they have that
perspective, they've had that experience, they've existed in that perspective before,
but they have a larger, greater one, I guess, and that's maybe the difference in that, you
know, when it's two adults, and you're assuming that you know the best for the other person,
you haven't had their, you don't have their perspective, you haven't had their experience,
you haven't been to the experiences they've been through. So your experience, your perspective
doesn't include it but transcends theirs, possibly. Or it might be in some ways, which
it does.
I'm going to play a little bit more of John Vivecki of episode 20 here, or episode 2,
I'm sorry, of After Socrates. This is, I think, this is maybe not entirely related to what
I was just talking about, although it actually is, because it's directly following on from
that, but it's also related to my, you know, what I've been thinking about with framing
and perspectives and, you know, the window thing that I was talking about.
See that? See, when you're in a perspective, remember when we compared the first person
perspective and the third person perspective, when you're asking your friend about the problem
that they're having? When you're in a perspective, that framing, it blinds you to what's outside
the perspective. You can't see the biases of your perspective, and you can't take on
new interests beyond your perspective. But...
Yeah, so that's, I mean, that's him basically saying what I've already been saying. You
know, when you are in a perspective, you're blind to what's outside of it. This is a quick
follow-up. This is where he follows on to from there, which is up to do with the, you
know, the adult's perspective, including in transcending the child's.
But...
When you internalise other people, you transcend, and you get the capacity to self-transcend
and you get the capacity to self-correct, to overcome bias, and to orient more properly
and appropriately towards reality.
Yeah, I'd need to chew on that a bit more, I think. But that's, I mean, I think that's
intimately related to what I'm interested in of this, this, you know, framing in order
to simplify, in order to enclose the unboundedness of the world. Which maybe isn't exactly the
same as the closedness and the simplification thing. But in doing that, when you, so maybe
internalising others, internalising is the way that we break those frames and we, by
internalising others, we are able to have insights and break that frame and transcend
it and adapt and grow.
So, maybe, what's it called, internalisation is perhaps central to this exact thing that
I am fascinated by and so interested in.
