Episode four of After Socrates, up to 49 minutes in.
It's a complicated set of things he's talking about.
He's talking about the self and no selfness.
He's currently talking about light as a metaphor
or light as an imaginal, et cetera, et cetera.
I can't really go into it, it's a bit confusing.
I'm struggling with my head around it a bit,
but it's also really interesting.
But he's talking about, so he's talking about
how we talk about light as we use light
as an imaginal metaphor where it's like,
things can't be intelligible without light.
And just this thing he says where he's like, oh,
he says, so he's going through this kind of,
this sort of mystical sort of stuff to do with,
he's talking about the intelligibility at the,
yeah, I don't know, it's hard to say,
but anyway, so he says, while talking about this metaphor
of light and intelligibility, he says,
you get these people who are analytical,
you get the analytical philosophers who say,
things have to be clear.
And he says, what do you mean by that?
What is clear?
What is the phenomenology of clear?
Where does that come from?
And I think that's a really important thought.
It's like analytical philosophy refuses to engage
with the paradox at the heart of things.
It just tries to make things more and more clear,
more and more, it just tries to build a better
and better box around things.
It tries to make things more and more clear and precise.
And that's important, but it's also refusing to engage
with the un-clarity, it's like, you know, like,
why do you need things to be clear?
What is it for something to be clear?
Why, what does that feel like?
Why do you need that, it to feel like that, et cetera,
et cetera, to engage with the actual experience
of clarity, I guess, rather than just assuming
that clarity is what we need and what we want
and what we should always be searching for
and doing all this logical stuff to reach it, basically.
