And this is big. It feels big anyway. So I've just gone on to episode 6 of After Socrates,
and up to about 19 minutes in, and he's talking about, he's giving quotes from González,
one of the guys that originated as a third wave Platonism, or Platonic thing, and he's
talking, he's giving a quote from this guy of what's involved. Anyway, he's basically,
so González is drawing out that in the dialogues Socrates is able to basically kind of like,
he's able to argue both sides of a, basically it's talking about how there's like two different
sides to every argument that are, I don't know how to explain it. Two different sides
to every argument isn't good enough, but it'll have to do for now. And both of them are,
this is the important part, both of them are true. Both of them are true. They are in opposition
to each other, but they're both true, importantly. And he is able to do like aspect shifts from
one to the other, basically, which is exactly what I have felt. It's not a synthesis where
you're holding both. It is a, it's not a synthesis where you're holding both together in place,
because that would be to have a frame that's probably too large to, like it's probably,
that, it's probably not possible to do that, although I actually think it may be, and that
synthesis may be also more important than we think. But it's not a synthesis where you're
holding both in place together, synthesised together. It's a shifting from one to the
other, like the duck rabbit that Wittgenstein talks about, that they talk about in perception
theology, where you're, it's like you're seeing it as one thing, and then suddenly it switches
and you can see it as another thing. It's like that. It's a switching back and forth
between seeing different views, basically. And that's my experience in like so many arguments,
in so many discussions with people, that is my experience. Depending on who I'm talking
to, I switch between one and the other. And it's because both are true. We're so locked
into this, only one can be true. There's binary opposition. One is true and one is false.
And it's just, ugh. Which, yeah, it may, this stuff, I mean part of the reason I love this
stuff is for how interesting, but it's directly, like again and again, directly applicable
to my own life and my own experience. It's like drawing out my own experience of life
and giving a name to it and explaining it. It's incredible. God, I want to, I just, ugh,
I don't know. I'm, I'm, I am blown away again and again. And I want to be part of this.
It's like it, it's like, it's something I've struggled with for so long because it feels
like the way I feel and see the world and experience things, it's like there's no, there's no place
for it. You know, our, our, our, our, so, yeah. We are, everything around me is always binary
opposition, one or the other, conflict. And I don't experience that. I experience opposition
... I don't like the way he, like, I don't think opponent processing versus adversarial
processing is the right term because opponent processing, opponent is the same as adversary.
It's the same thing. It's, it's, need a term, need a different term, but that's the best
we've got right now. That's, that's how I experience things. That's how I experience
discussions and relationships and, and ideas and, and I'm constantly frustrated by people,
of other people's commitment to one side or the other without being able to see a bigger
picture, without being able to see that the other side has merit, that there is a, there
is truth there. You know, and I've thought this for like a, I've only been really studying
to, you know, all the stuff I'm talking about and thinking about, I have felt like this
for a long time. It has not, it's not been super conscious or thought out, but I, this
is, this is how I have felt about things for a very long time. This is how I have experienced
things for a very long time and it's, it's just kind of accreting and building on top
of itself. And I feel like there's, I have constantly felt like there is no place for
that. Like it, it makes me, if I felt like it, that, you know, there's, there's no support
for it, it makes me an outsider. It, it, it, it makes, it pisses people off and, and makes
them feel like I'm not listening to them or like I am denigrating their position. You
know, I'm hurting their emotions and then I feel bad. Like that's what was happening
with Holly so much. I was like, you're, you, you're not seeing the larger picture. You're
not seeing the, the truth, the important value and truth in the, in the thing you are arguing
against. You're locked into your own little view and she just, she would see that as me
invalidating her, her views, her ideas, her experience, her feeling, her feelings. And
I didn't want to do that. It's not what I was trying to do and I, and I tore myself
apart because I was like, well, I'm trying, you know, I want to hear you. I want to listen
to you. I want to, I, your, your, your emotions and your feelings and your experience has validity.
And you know, I want to do that for anyone, but I especially want to do that for you because
I love you and you're important to me. You know, I, I want to hear your, your, your point
of view, but I also am constantly frustrated by how blinded and blinkered you are. And
that's a feeling I get, you know, I get it in so many discussions, you know, like listening
to Millie the other day when she was talking about the empathy stuff we were talking about.
And I don't know who to, like, I don't know who to talk to about this because it doesn't
feel like there's, like, this isn't something I could talk to my therapist about because
this is fucking beyond therapy. Therapy's got nothing to do with any of this shit. It's
just, it's felt like there is no support for this way of being, this way of seeing. There's
no, it's felt like I am alone in seeing things like this, you know, because that's not the
way we are, our world is, it's not the way we're, it's not the way our conversation is,
it's not the way we're set up. But I, I disagree and I care so much about it not being like
that. I want it to be better. Which means I care, what I care about really is dialectic
and to deal with this. And this feels like an awakening, this feels like a validation,
it feels like a home. Listening to John Vivecki feels like a home. It's not that I'm, it's
like he's giving words to something I have felt and experienced my whole fucking life
and felt minimised for and reviled. And he's giving me the words and the scaffolding to
understand it and explain it. He's drawing out in greater detail and with more nuance
and validity and argumentation something I have felt my entire fucking life and felt
like I couldn't talk to anybody about. And he's legitimising it and he's, he makes me
feel understood and validated and god it just, and that's wrapped up in all of this, all
this like, I don't, I don't know, I don't have the words for this. This feels like a
fucking, it feels like some kind of awakening and god I want to work with him so bad. He
feels, to me he feels like my prophet. I don't like the religiosity and the cultishness of
that and I have to be careful of it but he feels like, he feels like a guru to me. I
think he'd be uncomfortable with that and I'm uncomfortable with that but he feels like
a guru to me. He feels like my guru or my prophet or I don't know, my idol definitely.
I'm really, I am so drawn to this and everything he talks about. I really, really, I don't
know how to make it happen but I really want to study it. I want to, I want to not like
a fucking PhD, he's just my supervisor, I want to, you know, like the old school term
like, you know, Heidegger was for Husserl, with Husserl or Wittgenstein was with Bertrand
Russell. I want to be this man's student. I want him to be my mentor. I want to work
with him. I want to work under him and learn from him. Yeah. This is now hours later, it's
the end of the day. I did that, everything before this was before work and this is now
on the way home from work. But yeah, making just an extra point here which is that, give
me a moment actually, I've got to confirm what it was. Talking about, well he's actually
quoting I think Goat and Salas here but they, whoever is talking is talking about how the
fact that Socrates kind of wanders between these, and questions and wanders between these
two poles but Gonzales uses sides and John uses aspects. But the fact that Socrates is
wandering between these because they are both trued, they are in an adversarial relationship,
oppositional relationship but they are both trued in some way or another. The fact that
he does that points to a third option, a third way that transcends both and points to the
fact that that thing can't be reduced to one aspect or the other, one side or the other
basically. So it's basically like just kind of noting that we need to, it's about transcending
the one sidedness by seeing both, see both in order to transcend, like shift between
each side to transcend that framing and, yeah I don't know what their, I feel like their
relationship then after that is to synthesise them but he seems to be pushing for an extension
for it not to be synthesis, it's shifting from one to the other. But yeah anyway. It's
also complexification. It's, your complexification is diversification and it's simultaneously
diversifying and integrating. It's two different things, well it's not really necessarily two
different things, maybe it's not, I mean I think it is complexifying but I don't know
how, I'm not sure that actually exactly relates. Anyway, also a lot of this actually comes
from Wittgenstein, Wittgenstein's idea of the aspect shift, the aspectuality. So I want
to read up on that. This is to quote J.V. who's quoting Gonzales, "Socrates insists
that the forms, which is the Eidos, are objects of dialectic because they are profoundly ambiguous
and are causes of, I don't know if he's saying wondering or wondering, I think it might be
intended to be kind of both." Yeah. Socrates is setting out to basically, because of that
ambiguity reveal the totality, basically I guess my interpretation here, the larger picture.
Aspect shift by recognising that there is truth in both of them and putting them into
dialectic and aspect shifting between them and kind of wondering and exploring and being
in wonder about them. He's aiming to make the whole that they are both a part of more
clear, I guess, maybe? I think that's probably wrong, probably not quite the right interpretation
but that's how I'm interpreting it currently. The important part here is because we are
using each side to correct and counterbalance the other. That's why this system works. That's
why this whole thing works because each side does something that the other doesn't. That's
why the parasympathetics and sympathetic nervous system work the way they do. Tradition versus
progress, each of those things does something that the other doesn't. It has some, one side
has a weakness, the other doesn't. You're playing them off against each other to get
to the optimal point for that situation. The important part for my project, especially
for the aim of demonstrating the complexity of the world, it's that he goes on to then
talk about this aspectuality and this thing through the lens of let go, through the example
of an actual object. He's talking about the camera and he's like, "You think you know
this camera but slow down. Stop. Actually, you never see the whole camera at one time.
You only see a part of it, a side of it, an aspect of it. You never see all of the uses
of it at once." He's basically saying every object has an unending number of aspects that
aren't in competition with each other but aren't logically identical but they're all still within
that object. They're all part of that object and you are aspect shifting. They are multi-aspectual
and you are aspect shifting from one to the next constantly. His contention, and I think
it's a good one, and it's what I'm drawing on for my argument is that everything has
vastly more, possibly infinitely more uses and aspects than we ever can see at one time.
We only ever see one bit of them at a time basically but there's vastly more to everything.
Every object, everything exceeds our framing of it which is what I'm drawing on when I'm
saying it's another example of that infinite complexity. When every object withdraws from
our framing is greater than our framing and there's probably ways that you could use a
camera that we wouldn't even consider. Human beings would never consider there maybe some
other sentient species out there that may use a camera in some way that we would never consider
at all and until the interaction happened between the camera and that species that aspect
is never going to be apparent basically. Yeah so this is an important point to draw on.
I mean he's basically making my argument much better than I am. I'm really drawing on him
essentially. The unending multitude of aspects that every object, everything has, although
he's saying don't think of it in a thingy way, the unending multitude of aspects that
every object has, they're not separate, they're not incoherent, they're not absurd, they all
belong together, they're bound together and that's logos. They are put together. He's
saying that he says there's a whole, there is a whole, wh, there's a whole there, a whole
thing but you actually don't see it. You only ever see an aspect of it at a time. You only
ever experience an aspect of it at a time. I don't know, I think there would be pushback
against this but you can extend, he says you can extend the number of aspects indefinitely.
There are so many that you can't even imagine. He says there's, every object has, you know,
you can wander through all of these aspects because there is, he says there's a through
line through all of them like a string on a string of pearls with each of the pearls being
an aspect. There's something that binds them all together and you can wander between those
and wander between the aspects and shift between the aspects and that's the ambiguity. Yes,
really, that's the ambiguity inherent in everything, in every, well, without being thingy, everything,
the ambiguity that's inherent in everything. Actually, I think that's a really good way
to think about it, the ambiguity inherent in everything. That everything is ambiguous,
everything is inherently ambiguous, everything is, everything, every being, every person
is vastly ambiguous. And yeah, that's important. And these, you know, this through line, we
get a sense of the whole, as we shift through the aspects we get a sense of the whole but
it's not a definition, it's a path we can follow is what he says. And think about how
this applies to, you know, different, like political positions and all of these polarised
positions. Think about wandering, wandering and wandering through them and all of the
different aspects of them.
"Spects shifts are like shifts in insight," he says, in the sense of, you know, like the
duck rabbit, you have a moment of insight when you switch from one aspect to the other,
when you switch from seeing it as a duck to seeing it as a rabbit. That is an insight.
Is that really important? I don't quite, it's not quite connecting but I think it's going
to lead to an important point. He says, "The through line through all of the aspects is
not itself an aspect, it cannot be, it can't be another aspect. It is separate from the
aspect." Well, maybe not separate because none of this is separate. They're all together
but it is in itself an aspect. Think, maybe the overall point he's making is that that
through line is the forms, that's Plato's forms, is that through line between all the
aspect shifts, aspects of everything.
This is something I want to read, so he's talking about how, so he's talking about,
he's going to a hospital and he's talking about a book called "Experimental Phenomenology,"
the second edition, which is basically, teaches you, it teaches you the practice of how to,
of how to see phenomenologically, which is basically how to see the aspects, how to see,
yeah, how to see the aspects of things rather than how to see, yeah. He says that's where,
that book is where he got the idea of this stuff from.
