We're almost at the end of episode 3 of After Socrates.
This is really interesting.
I'm just going to let him play it out.
I think that's really abstract.
Yeah, it is.
Hold that bit.
But think about it.
There's a process.
Reality's unfolding moment by moment.
Are the moments logically identical to each other?
No, of course not.
But yet, they're somehow one.
One.
What's holding them together?
Well, other moments...oh, I just said other moments. Oh my gosh.
Right.
And those moments somehow form patterns.
Are patterns things?
Objects?
No.
Think of the pattern of evolution. Is evolution in a particular place?
Or what about this pattern from physics? E=mc^2. Is that out in a particular place?
Does it take up a certain amount of space?
No.
It's everywhere and nowhere and somehow one, but not in a thingy way.
And those patterns are ultimately based on principle.
They're organized in some way. And what's that principle? It can't be another pattern.
Oh, right. Right.
Dialectic is getting us into that.
All of that. Really fucking interesting.
I think this heavily relates to my ideas around...
like...the realness of categories.
Yeah.
But at a much deeper level than I've thought about it.
I think he is actually exploring stuff I've been thinking about independently
at a much deeper level than I have been thinking about it. I think.
I think there's a lot more to listen to and think about here.
We got up to about 14 and a half, 15 or so minutes into episode 3 of After Socrates.
And he's talking about the sense of communion, the sense of fellowship,
of love, you know, the fellowship love between people who aren't friends
or acquaintances but aren't strangers that arises in dialectic.
He talks about how these...you know, he's talking about the circling practice.
He talks about how people who have done this circling practice,
particularly for the first time, talk about how they have discovered
a new sense of intimacy that they didn't realize existed
or they didn't realize they were actually hungering for.
And it's like...I think it sounds like that's kind of really...
that's what you get out of a community, a real community.
And that's that kind of like middle level...oh, sorry, that's that third level of...
you know, you've got your close friends.
Third level of social connections, you've got your close friends,
you've got your circle of less close friends and acquaintances,
and then you've got your wider circle that you're a part of,
although this kind of sounds like something in between, really.
And that sense of like hungering for it I think is something that I have been feeling.
I have been...like I feel a strong sense of a desire for intimacy.
And I often equate that with...I often equate that with, you know,
an intimate, erotic, you know, like a partner.
That's where I look for intimacy because I don't know how to...
I don't really feel intimate with my friends,
and I don't feel like I have community.
But I don't necessarily...but I still feel like a very strong need for this, for intimacy.
And I think an intimacy that goes beyond, not necessarily...well, not really beyond,
it's maybe not right to just equate that intimacy with a...I don't even know,
like literally all I can think of when I go to say that isn't like a partner or a girlfriend
is intimate relationship, as in that's all we...like, you know,
that erotic, you know, life partner relationship is...we have reduced intimate relationship
directly just to that.
But I think I want intimate relationships beyond...and in this hunger I've been feeling for touch
and for closeness and being able to talk to somebody like I talk to Holly,
that doesn't feel available to me outside of those relationships,
like that kind of really close romantic...let's just use that, a romantic relationship.
But I think there's more to that, more possibilities for that,
and I'm realising my experiences I'm going through at the moment,
I may be bound up in this, but then it also made me realise that, you know,
a hungering for that and not having it is tied up with vulnerability and lack of vulnerability,
like I was talking about yesterday.
So there's, again, this link between the things that I'm interested in at the moment,
this philosophical stuff, and the self-development life stuff I'm getting out of my therapy
and Mark Manson and what I've learned out of my relationship with Holly,
and this need for greater vulnerability,
and the lack of vulnerability in my own personal life that arises from a lack of...
I don't know if it's a vulnerability, a lack of vulnerability arising from a lack of intimacy
or a lack of intimacy arising from a lack of vulnerability,
but that's tied up with feeling disconnected and also feeling scared,
which is fear of these things and fear, like just a pervasive fear I feel in my life,
is tied up with that lack of vulnerability,
not feeling scared of being vulnerable with other people.
But you need to be vulnerable with other people to get this intimacy,
and how that's tied up with the social side of things and the ways our culture is...
like Brené Brown talks about this never-enoughness and this scarcity culture,
and all of those things she talked about in her book that I read.
That's all intimately related to this.
Fuck.
God, it just feels like there's so many things coming together across so many elements coming together,
lady, you need to fucking indicate for this to work.
So many things coming together across so many parts of my life
that it all feels so interconnected.
And that is slightly worrying, it maybe feels like, you know,
like Brett Anderson was talking about the brain just seeing connections between things.
Brett Anderson and the other guy I was reading, the Superb Owl.
It's like, are those real connections or is that just my brain seeing things kind of thing?
They're not necessarily there.
But yeah, it definitely feels a lot of closely related things here in so many different aspects of life.
