five minutes into episode 11 of After Socrates, he starts talking about the modal confusion
where there's nothing wrong with either, there's nothing inherently good or bad about either
mode. The problem is when we get into modal confusion where we use the wrong mode for
the need we need, we're trying to fulfil. And he says that the main one that Thumb talks
about, and this is basically a capitalist critique, is that we are trying to fulfil
our being modes, our becoming or being needs within the having mode. I need to become somebody
who is in love so I'll have a lot of sex kind of thing. And then he goes on to talk about
how, you know, the reason this happens is because if society can convince you that you
can fulfil your having modes, your being needs within the having mode, it can sell you shit,
it can sell you things and ideas, which is basically capitalist critique. And he says
this is a profound kind of bullshit where it's your disconnect from reality, meaning
that if you're in this modal confusion, your being needs aren't being met, then it must
mean that you need more cards, you need to have more things, you need to have more sex,
etc. etc. Which is entirely what we see all the time and what I feel fucking subjected
to constantly. And he's talking about, you know, he can get you to attach and identify
with sets of ideas, which I think is like a lot of this ideology, political, you know,
propaganda-y, outrage farming that's happening constantly, it's the same shit. And that's
like interacts with AI and recommender engines that David Chapman talks about and all of
that shit. He says it goes back the other way as well, where, you know, because we live
in a society of cultural extremes, we have people who are like, I'm not quite sure who
he means by this, but people who are hyper-focused on the being mode to the, you know, we have
people who focus on the extremes of transcendence and becoming and, you know, detachment and
don't accept that, you know, they don't face up to the responsibilities of being an embodied
living agent who has having needs that need to be met. The spiritual bypassing, and he
says when he grew up in his conservative or his fundamentalist Christian, he said it was
too heavenly minded to be any earthly good. The problem of being modally confused into
using, trying to fulfil the needs within the having mode is much more prevalent in our
society because the political and social and economic powers that be, it's beneficial for
them basically to, so that we can be exploited more easily and, you know, solve things was
also the case in the time of the Stoics. This, trying to fulfil the powers that be pushing
towards fulfilling having mode needs, being meets within the having mode, pursuing fame
and glory and riches and all those sorts of things. Then he builds on this and extends
on it by drawing on Apter's reversal theory where he has metamotivational modes, which
I haven't heard about before. Interesting thought that's just occurred to me towards
the, I don't know, it's prompted by episode 11 of After Socrates, that that ratio religio
that John talks about this connectedness, maybe that's care, that's mattering in the way that
Heidegger talks about. You know, things don't just happen, they matter to us. We care about
them. And maybe in some way that care is, either is or is a reflection of or has a reflection
of a relationship with, I mean definitely has a relationship with, but maybe it is or
is a reflection of that ratio religio, or at least that level of that religio, that
connectedness. I realised how connected, you know, John isn't, like everything he's talking
about has to do with development and growth and self-transcendence. And that's so, like,
entirely connected to David Chapman's work on metarationality as a developmental thing.
You develop into metarationality. This is really interesting, so this is prompted by
episode 11 of After Socrates, 58 minutes in, well actually 57 minutes in. So he's talking
about how, he's talking about his whole thing of, you know, reciprocal narrowing, you know,
the reciprocal narrowing model of depression, sorry, of addiction, and how it's, you know,
your options reducing, which means that, you know, basically who you can be and how the
world can be both kind of shrinking and becoming smaller. And the opposite of that is reciprocal
opening where, you know, and that's Anagoga, the trip out of the, the journey out of the
cave that Plato talks about. And then this is the really important part. He says that
notice that that reciprocal opening, that's what love is, and not just romantic love,
friendship love too. Like, love in general, that's what, that's what, that's what love
is. It's a reciprocal, mutually, mutually accelerating disclosure. I reveal myself and
you reciprocate and reveal yourself to me. That's what, that's how love develops. That's
what love is in a way. And think about how much that connects to vulnerability and the
work of Brene Brown and Mark Manson on vulnerability. And, you know, my personal growth journey
and my personal experiences around vulnerability. Think of the connections between those two
things. You know, how our culture basically teaches us to avoid vulnerability. We have
all these experiences in life that make us scared of vulnerability. Our culture basically
inculcates that vulnerability is bad into us. And yet vulnerability is necessary for
love and friendship. And it's also probably necessary for anagoga. See how important vulnerability
is to all of this and how that connects to everything that Brene Brown talks about in
that book I read. You know, this never enough society that we live in. And how that connects
to the having mode and the constant need for more. It's all fucking connected. Holy shit.
And the personal experience, like the very, very personal experience of this, the personal
growth journey of this, of learning how to be vulnerable with others and the pain and
fear involved in that problem of having to be vulnerable. And how that showed up in my
relationship. How I loved Holly so much for her willingness to be vulnerable with me.
And the intense, immense pain I felt at the end of our relationship, recognising that
she had been so vulnerable and open with me and I had closed myself off to her. I had
turned away from her. And how I'm on this desperate journey to, I feel this desperate
need to, and how we, and here's that word again, connect. How we connect with others
through vulnerability. And that connection is religio. It is bindedness. I have this
desperate, feel this desperate, desperate need to be known, which is to make oneself
vulnerable. To be known by others and to connect with others and to have these authentic, vulnerable,
open relationships that I feel like I don't have. Oh man. God damn. And then he talks
about how the reciprocal opening means as I open myself to you, I and you open yourself
to me, mutually, I start to see more deeply into you and I start to see more deeply into
myself through you. And that's the participatory nature of love. And that's the participatory
nature of love. And think about that exact experience I had of how I came to know Holly
more and in the process came to know myself in new ways. I developed and grew and transcended
myself through her and the ways that knowing her let me know myself in new ways and in
more mature ways I think. And how I now feel as a more, I feel a more mature, more developed
person having known her in that way. How thankful I am to her for that and for her willingness
to make her, to open herself to me and to make herself vulnerable with me. And though
it fell apart, her willingness to hold my vulnerability for me, to accept my vulnerability
and hold it and see my vulnerable self and not destroy me for it. And how I feel in some
ways I failed her because I withdrew, I closed off. And she was trying to reconnect with
me and the pain of knowing the pain I must have caused her, knowing that she was trying
so desperately to reconnect. And I was just closing, turning away, I was closing myself
off. How incredibly sad and painful that is. And how much I want to apologize to her for
all that. And at 58 minutes and 20 seconds he starts talking about what I was thinking
about myself, that we're really messed up about love in our Ocanal culture, that we
don't distinguish between the different kinds of love. We don't distinguish between agape
and eros and phylea and raw lust and all of those things. And that we think that love
is an emotion. Our culture's approach to love is something I'm actually beginning to care
a great deal about. A lot. I really care about that very deeply actually. Because it impacts
me so much and I see it impact so many people around me. And this is something I'm really
interested in. And that we've reduced emotions to feelings, that you know, I'm having a particular
feeling. But he said you can have the same feeling with different, you can have the same
feeling, the same arousal with different motivational states. This is really interesting because
it kind of doesn't, it's a challenge to my personal experience. He says we do this, we
think that love is an emotion and emotion is a feeling and that therefore, and that
love is a feeling. Okay, interesting. He says love is an existential stance. It is a way
of binding yourself to another in a mutually opening, this is a much other thing, a mutually
opening relationship. It is a connection. Wow, and then he talks about how I never claimed
to know you the way I know the bottle, but I am constantly, I remain faithful to the
experience we have of constantly being drawn into, of growing through each other and seeing
into each other and into ourselves and constantly being drawn into the mystery of, constantly
being drawn into the mystery of the other's mystery basically. Because every person is
far greater than anything we can know of them. They always exceed our framing. Every person
is always, always exceed that. Every person is vast and always exceeds our framing of
them. And this is why those, the ones that love us are the ones that can most hurt us,
which is vulnerability, which is why it's called vulnerability. You are making yourself
vulnerable to harm. The only way to have that religio, that connectedness, that bindedness
to others and to the world that gives meaning, because that's what meaning is, connectedness
and bindedness connectingness to the world. Why is there a duck in the middle of the road?
We have to embrace the chance for, the potential for harm to be open to others, to have meaning.
And I have struggled with that my entire life. Because I have struggled to be known by others
and despite a desperate desire to be known by others, to be known, it's, so I'm just
going to have to play it I think. Because we have committed, joy is a way of
recognizing that you are in love, which isn't an emotion and isn't a feeling. It is an existential
mode. In particular, it is a way of inhabiting the being mode by being with, through and
for someone else or something else. The love is how, is a way that we inhabit
the being mode. Is like, all of this convinces me so much that this is the thing to care
about. This is the thing to focus on. This is the route to work on for all of the other
issues. Yeah, wow. God, this is just constantly convincing
me that I'm going down the right path. This is where I should be. This is what I should
be doing. What John's doing. It's painful. It's embarrassing to admit, but I want to
be John's disciple. That is what I want. I have to be careful. I don't want to be swept
up in that. I don't want to be, you know, worship him. But I want to be his disciple.
I want to learn from him. I want to do what he's doing. I want to be involved in what
he's doing. Because I care. And I don't agree with him about everything. And I think there's
things and ways in which I could even develop further beyond things that he talks about,
other ways in which I couldn't. But I want to be part of this, of what he's doing so
badly. It just, I feel, I feel called to this in ways I've never felt called to anything.
Yeah, the doing psychology and doing behaviour change, that felt, it felt important. It did
feel important. It felt like it mattered. But it wasn't the same as this. It was much
more cerebral and in some ways desperate. Just like, "Oh, I need to do something and
this is the best thing I can come up with." And it had been better. It was better than
that. And it did, it was important. It did feel like it was something that was important.
And it is still important. But I can't go back to the way I was before interacting with
this work. This has changed me. It has awakened so many things in me. And I don't so desperately
want to be part of it. I just, I'm not really sure how to do that. Other than to take any
opportunity I can to connect with that, that, that environment. I mean, if anyway I can
connect with John, if I could find some way to like attend a talk he's giving somewhere,
I would really fucking love to do that. But I, I, at that end do what I'm doing. Explore
my thoughts and keep coming, I'm at UQ at the moment, I've just pulled up, keep doing
this, keep coming here and researching and pouring my thoughts into things. And it will
take time because it's not something I know I'm used to. You know, and I find it actually
quite difficult. It's going to take, it will build up over time but I just have to keep
doing it. Keep building it and eventually I will get to a point I think where it becomes
the thing that I do with my time. God damn.
