I'm listening to the Man Talks podcast. I don't know what episode number it is, but
it's called Attachment Something. Something like what every man should know about attachment
and what red pill gets wrong. Something like that. And it's at 38 minutes in and they're
talking about how basically they've gotten onto how talking about the modern dating scene
and the guy's interviewing, he's talking about how most securely attached people end up with
other securely attached people fairly early and stay together. The dating pool tends to
be mostly made up of insecurely attached people who end up with other insecurely attached
people and wound each other. And he was talking about the dopamine earlier and he talks about
how modern dating apps are like dopamine factories. They're almost like an Amazon of people you're
going to have sex with. I fucking felt that. And that made me think so much. That is so
heavily connected to the having mode and modal confusion. That is directly intimately and
they're talking about it. They're talking about the modern dating scene through an attachment
lens. That is the fucking having mode. It's directly linked to the having mode and modal
confusion. Yeah, I actually just need to straight up record this because this is directly talking
about the having mode without them knowing about it. At the beginning of the first six
to seven months of relationship, you get lots of dopamine. But after that, it kind of drops
off. It's like the novelty dopamine. It tops off and is supposed to be replaced by oxytocin,
which is what basically makes you feel loved and connected, makes you feel connected to
other people. And it's what makes you feel loved and safe. And it's what spurs spontaneous
signs of affection and things like that. So this is what he goes on to say. Right there
is what is supposed to replace the dopamine at six to seven months. And you're supposed
to transition from one to the next. A lot of people out there are familiar with the
one-year cliff in the female sex drive. The one-year cliff comes from her dopamine drops.
She's not trying to earn your approval. She's trying to bond with you. But her sex drive
is driven primarily by oxytocin, especially long term. Does she feel loved? Does she feel
safe? Does she feel connected? Have you demonstrated emotional openness? Have you forged an emotional
bond with her that would make her irreplaceable? Or have you kept her at arm's length and she's
nothing but a dopamine binge to you so she's imminently replaceable at the drop of a hat?
That is the having mode. You are imminently replaceable at the drop of a hat. I can easily
replace you. The having mode.
