So I'm listening to one of the latest episodes of Voices of Idoveihe.
It's where he's talking to, it's just called Attachment Theory.
I don't quite know who he's talking to.
Attachment Theory Beyond Therapy. Seth All-something.
So he's starting off by explaining what attachment theory is.
But he's doing it in a really interesting way.
Which goes much beyond the labels and theoretical stuff that a lot of attachment theory talks about.
And is really grounding it in, almost phenomenology, grounding it in experience.
He's talking about how you have these three stages.
You've got, let's say you've got a baby, and it has some experience of pain.
We would say it's hungry, but that's not what the baby experiences.
The baby experiences some kind of...
It's pre-conceptual, it experiences it as pain.
But it doesn't know what pain is.
It has a somatic experience, and that's what it's experiencing.
Which that already is important, because that's still there for us.
We just kind of paced over that with conceptions, with conceptual frameworks.
But we still had that.
And in some ways I think we paced so much conceptual framework over it that we actually kind of lose contact with the somatic experience itself.
I think.
Yes, he says the baby has the somatic experience.
The second part is it symbolises that, it expresses that outwardly.
In some way for the baby it's crying.
And then the third thing that happens is, the parent, their...
Hopefully, what should happen is their nervous system has a response.
Their nervous system has a response in some way.
And they go to the baby and they soothe it. They do something.
And that is the co-regulation.
The baby becomes distressed, expresses that distress.
The child, the parent probably also feels some level of distress.
He says, "Your nervous system responds, the parent's nervous system responds, if they hear their baby crying and they can't get through the door to get to the baby, their nervous system is going to fucking escalate real fast."
And then the fourth stage, and that's co-regulation.
The fourth stage is, hopefully, the baby returns to its developmentally appropriate activity, which is hopefully sleeping.
That's really, really important and interesting because all of that kind of shows that's...
That's Retroligio. Connectedness. We are on a biological level, attuned to and connected to others around us.
Most typified and most powerfully in our caregiver relationships or our attachment relationships.
But we are closely biologically connected to others before we are conceptual.
And in fact, the conceptual in some ways gets...not gets in the way of, but almost occludes that.
You know, being a baby is the most primal, primordial experience of being human before we start adding on everything else that comes with time and age and experience.
And a lot of that is the stuff that we toss aside. We are intimately connected to others.
So this idea, yeah, like...there's still the problem of how do we prove that, given problems with knowledge, but it's...
But it's still...that is like a connection and connectedness to others on a fundamental level is primordial.
We are so far away from being this isolated, autonomous individual. We are so far away from being that.
And someone does something really interesting with that and he asks a question and the guy says yes, responding, but I'm just going to say it as a not question.
The parent, the child starts to learn from the parent.
The parent is starting to reflect the environment and back to the child and provide them a framework, starting to provide them a framework of intelligibility.
And think about how primordial, how important in our makeup that makes this safe relationship.
Because that connectedness, that framework of intelligibility that arises, arises out of a feeling of...first arises out of a feeling of safety and comfort and return to normalcy, being comforted.
Think about how much heart...think about the relationship between that and disorganized attachment.
Yeah, wow.
This...the ways we are attached are really fundamental.
This is like almost the core of our being in some ways. This is really deep primordial stuff.
God damn. So he talks about...kind of wanted to avoid this like insight cascade shit, but this is really good.
So he's talking about how if you do...if a parent does respond somewhat appropriately, like fairly appropriately 70-80% of the time, the child starts to develop...you end up with...hopefully, generally end up with a securely attached parent...adult.
And the important part about this is not only do they think that other people...or feel that other people are safe, they also feel that their distress and their problems and things like that can be soothed by relationships.
Like think about how much that...how intimately that is tied to your...to our agent arena relationship, to our participatory knowing.
Like attachment and your attachment style is intimately tied to your way of being in the world, your connection to the world.
Yeah, wow.
Jesus.
Yeah, securely attached people grow up to trust not only other people, but their experience, their somatic experience that they can trust the signals that they're receiving from their body.
This is interesting, the guy he's interviewing is saying that he actually feels that attachment...the attachment styles is actually quite limiting and unhelpful.
So now the other end of the day, I'm listening to the same thing but the other end of the day, and they're talking about how attachment is kind of bound up with cultural critiques of...like critiques of our culture of...the views of the independent adult.
You're supposed to become an adult, you're supposed to be independent. You know, this hyper individualistic thing and they're saying that attachment is not dependence.
It is a healthy interrelationship and it's actually the most efficient way to return to a healthy...to a good baseline that then allows us to act optimally in the world and that...
What's it called? Sorry, I just got distracted.
And that secure attachment is actually like basically optimal human functioning, saying that people who report feeling safe and secure with their partner, with their parents, those kinds of things, perform better than those who don't.
And this is interesting, so he's saying that part of the reason for that, the fact of being stable and secure is optimal is because when we're insecure, basically we have evolved so that that lack of...lacking that sense of safety affects us in a way that basically overtakes almost everything else.
That it consumes all of our energy basically, like it takes us over almost. That need to get back into safety and security is...blows everything else out of the water basically.
You know, and I can very heavily relate to that with what happened last year with Holly and everything I was dealing with.
Fucking God, it's hot.
You know, like my ability to do things, my ability to be present for Holly, my ability to cope with things, my ability to do work, to deal with everything, to deal with Holly's problems, with my problems, to feel love for Holly, to be excited about things, all of that was severely compromised last year.
And I felt very insecure.
We feel the stress, our brains and our bodily systems become basically focused on dealing with that distress. We can't put that aside.
Yeah, so it takes over.
Interesting. So John is then basically saying, taking a bit further and saying he's done some cognitive science on this, but it seems to him that we don't attach to an isolated individual, like another individual isolated in time, we attach to...
Basically we attach to a great deal more than that. We attach to, you know, he calls it, you know, basically we're attaching to home, which is the person, the context they're in, the wider social stuff.
And then he talks about, you know, your country, which is interesting because I don't feel at home here.
So the relationship between homed, homed-ness, like he talks about, you know, unhoming, and how we are unhomed because of our worldview, the relationship between that and attachment is really interesting.
Because, you know, if because of your worldview and the issues with it, you can't really feel at home almost anywhere, you're never really going to feel that secure.
Everything's always going to feel a bit insecure. So maybe like the very, like the structure of our society and our worldview may be causing us attachment injuries.
That's powerful. That's something to really think about.
Dude, the words John uses are we attach to a person within an entire system of the environment. That system of the environment, the environmental system that is your home and it has layers.
Your house, your room, the people you're with, your city, arguably your country, you know, what country you feel at home in, etc. etc.
So John cares about this because he's, you know, it's related to the meaning crisis. He's interested in, you know, this fact that people feel existentially homeless.
They feel like they're lacking a secure base from which to properly orient towards the world. And I can definitely relate to that.
Really interesting. So he's basically saying, you know, attachment is actually the, what the specific words he says is, attachment is the affordance to properly discipline attention.
Because you can't actually, you know, when you are securely attached, when you're secure, like the Stokes are talking about, they talk about being secure, Cosmopolitan, Cosmos, Polos, being secure wherever you are.
The importance of that is that you can then, you're not being, really this is relevance realisation, your relevance realisation machinery is not being pulled towards things that, you know, because you're insecure,
your relevance realisation machinery is being pulled towards things that make you, towards finding security. Only when you have that security can you actually then start to point your attention and your relevance realisation elsewhere.
Not entirely, like it's not that black and white, but you know, you can only really optimally start to train your attention and your relevance realisation machinery once you have that security.
And I think they're right, security and secure attachment goes beyond people, I think.
It's important too, like this idea that, it challenges the idea of attachment as, like people I think maybe think of attachment as being fixated on and dependent on other people.
And that's kind of what you see attachment, what you automatically kind of assume attachment is and that we shouldn't be attached to other people.
But that's not the case at all, we need to be attached to other people and we actually cannot be optimal, our optimal selves, our best selves, unless we are, basically.
Wow.
But you know, think about also how much more goes into that and how much harder that is if it goes beyond the attachment to specific individuals and figures.
Your attachment, your feeling secure, feeling of security in your home.
Do you feel at home where you are and with the people you're with and all of those things?
Because that also is contributing.
Yeah, wow.
That's interesting, so he's saying that the attachment theory, they're saying the attachment theory is incredibly robust and well replicated and predictive and just, it's very powerful, it's very well, it's robust, it's very robust.
But he's saying, the guy is saying that it actually gets at what the psychoanalysts were trying to get at, but it does it through empirical evidence rather than just what psychoanalysis does where it tries to just dive in.
This is interesting, so they're talking about the strange situation and how each of them plays out, but explaining, I think it's an anxious attachment, he's explaining that, you know, so the mum gets up and leaves, like the secure baby,
the kid goes up and reaches up at the door and tries to get mum back, but unlike the secure baby, when mum comes back and tries to soothe the baby, in the secure instance, the baby calms down, is regulated,
in the anxious thing, the baby doesn't, isn't soothed, they actually get more distressed, and as that escalates, often, quite usually, the mum or the caregiver also becomes distressed and it turns into like an anxious feedback loop.
Yeah, actually the better term, which is I think the original term for the anxious attachment style, is preoccupied, because they become preoccupied with being soothed.
You know, they don't, well, unlike the secure child, they don't return to exploring, they stay in mum's lap and keep crying and wanting soothing.
It just, the soothing doesn't really work, what people think of when they think of unhealthy dependence, basically. Which is interesting about how much, I wonder how much that's wrapped up in ideas of independence and this fucking, fucking motorbikes.
It's interesting, because I feel like that, like being preoccupied and unable to explore because of upset distress, is in some ways what some of my experience of life has been, I think.
But, yeah, then he goes on and talks about where it comes from and they say, he says a lot of it comes from that kind of like, inconsistent care and soothing from the parent, if they're depressed or that kind of thing.
Or the parent is easily overstimulated and overwhelmed, probably because of heartbeat. He says, the big five, high neurosis and negative affect.
When the kid, basically the kid has learnt that they need to turn up the volume to get the care they need, but they also get hit a point where, once they hit a certain threshold, they can't stop. They just, it keeps escalating.
And he says that arises from basically like an over, they get habituated to a pain, to like getting stuck in paying attention to their internal state, basically.
That kind of strikes a bell with me. So they say, explains, outlines what the reaction of the third child, which is avoidant, which is that when mum leaves, they don't get up and try and find her.
And they often, they don't really show much in the way of external distress. And this is the important point, in our culture we look at that and say, ah, that kid is secure.
That is our model of, like being completely independent of others is our model, our ideal. Which is just fucked, it's wrong.
Avoidant kids are actually, when you hook them up to monitors, you can't tell the difference between them and the anxious kids. They're actually still hyper aroused, they've just shut it down and like pushed it down.
And how much is that related to men's experience, you know, like masculine ideals of like stamping down your emotions and shit like that.
No wonder so many men are avoidant. Why more men are avoidant and more women are anxious.
This is interesting in telling, hold on, this is really, for me I think particularly relevant. He says, even at that age the child has learnt not to attend to the internal experience.
The kid will focus on the toys. They're basically, I don't know if they're distracting themselves, but they are, yeah, they're focusing outwardly rather than inwardly.
They're avoiding the inward and focusing on the outward and the anxious kid is unavailable to, is preoccupied with the inward and cannot focus on the outward at all.
Basically. And I actually, I kind of like a little bit thing with both of them, but I think my response tends to be more, is a bit more of the avoidant.
It's like shove things down and attend to the outside world rather than my internal world.
I think. You're talking about how the problems you would have with developing wisdom if you're excluding your internal experience.
Same thing with the anxious kids, but the opposite direction. So really you do, you do need to be secure. Like it's far easier to, to develop wisdom if you are secure.
So interesting. So he's getting onto the participatory stuff here. He's talking, John's talking about how, you know, that's the very beginning of, hold on, I'll just do it.
External sequence and internal intensive.
This is it. That's the very beginning of a profound participation in relationality by being able to process these two in their, in their, in how they belong together and how they work together and how they fit together.
So continuing to listen to this episode on attachment.
It's the next day now driving to work that talking about how basically you don't have to be one of these attachment styles.
Often we kind of move between them and in the, he says in the attachment world,
the definition of mental health is being able to have flexibility. It's basically like over time, if you're becoming less flexible, if you're becoming more stuck in one particular strategy, that's when it becomes pathological.
And he's basically talking about how, yeah, anyway, this is personally very relevant stuff. I think I'd rather just listen to it again rather than talk about it all.
And John says, so mental health is basically the optimality of relevance realisation. You can, you can make the best possible adjustments to your relevant realisation, the best possible adjustments to your, to your framing to restore you to, I think, a good position.
Really important. So he's talking about how, you know, when we get this into this distress, we can use, we can do it socially, we can solve the problem socially.
We can, we can, you know, do it with the person we have the rupture with, which is the most difficult thing to do.
Or we can, you know, do the mindfulness and the journaling for a couple of hours to get the clarity.
Or we can talk to somebody we trust. We can reach out to somebody else and do that socially.
And he says, you know, in our culture, particularly amongst men, that's really hard to do.
And that might be my exact fucking personal experience. And he's really passionate about changing that.
Really interesting about, like the relationships between our culture and the way men are.
You know, this sense that our culture is hyper individualistic is kind of some ways seems to be related to the way more to the way men are than the way women are.
And I wonder if that's maybe a thing of patriarchy, that it's like an indicator of patriarchy.
The patriarchy, as they say.
We can use that, you know, we are actually meant to use dialogue to process these things, basically.
John brings up how these biases towards these strategies, you know, the pattern of strategies we use forms because it's the best thing that the child can do at the time.
Which is basically goes back to John's whole thing of the things that make us adaptively intelligent also make us prone to self-deception.
This is the same. This is another instance of that.
Interesting. So personally as well is basically saying, you know, John's asking is this is this is the connection.
I'm fucking going to play it.
Is it about trying to get the emotional and the affective and the motivational systems attached to other contexts in a proper in a proper in an appropriate way?
Is it is it about kind of growing up so that you know what we mean growing up?
We mean that, you know, John recently, you know, we can face broader environments and a multiplicity environments.
We can face the flexibility earlier. The flexibility is measured by how many environments can you go in and survive?
Yes. Right. Right. That's right.
So absolutely right.
So is is this the connection then to emotion focused therapy is emotion focused therapy about that process of education, the emotional system.
So against the flexibility, be able to orient in multiple different environments other than the original one in which informed its mal it's originally adaptive but currently maladaptive patterns.
Is that is that is that extremely, extremely well said.
That's interesting. So apparently there's two strategies in avoidance where you're trying to you're focusing on the sequential.
He's taught. I haven't explained this, but he talks about how there's two basic strains of data sequential.
There's like the horizontal and vertical aspect, the sequential, like what's happening, what's happening next and the vertical thing of intensity and the anxious person hyper focus on ignores.
It basically gets lost in amongst the the intensity and the avoidant person avoids the intensity by focusing hyper focusing on the the horizontal axis.
And he says one of the two strategies that avoidant people use is caretaking, focusing on the external data of the other person to try and predict when they will and won't be available.
So they have to focus on that and they they do things that don't upset the other person and sue them so that they can become available.
On the raised an interesting point, it says our culture can miss reward mislabel and miss reward both of those by saying, look how compassionate the first one is and look at and the second is like performative.
I'm a good boy. I do. I do the good thing.
I work hard, etc, etc. And we can we miss reward that as ambition.
Basically, this is really interesting. He says in our culture, we're rewarded almost everywhere.
We're like we're not rewarded really anywhere in our culture for emotional intelligence, except relation like basically everywhere in our in our culture.
We're not rewarded for emotional intelligence. We're awarded for compulsive work and ambition, except for relationships.
That's the only place we're really rewarded for emotional intelligence.
Of course, it's a fucking difficult thing to do. Interesting. So he says the two strategies that the anxious or the C strategies as the other person talks about this, this the anxious.
I also kind of agree that maybe those aren't the right labels.
They basically use either, you know, forceful coercion because they can only they can only focus on themselves.
Yeah, like they are they are stuck in their internal processing in their like the intensity of their feelings.
They can only the only data they can process is their own.
They can't process what's happening with the other person.
So if it's like if they if they feel that the other person isn't available, they will either become their strategy.
They will usually either be like forceful and coercive or like feign or vulnerability and, you know, gilting the other person into things, that kind of stuff, which.
Yeah, you know, both being like some form of manipulation, basically.
An important part of it is that they only have themselves to to look at. They can't they are unable to to look at the other.
To to process the information coming from the other, they can only source of information is themselves.
Which. Yeah.
