thinking about... I discovered a term, the Greek term for competition, which is "agon",
which led me to "agonism", which is I think a really... an agonistic democracy, which
I think is a really interesting term, like, way... thing to go down. But "agon" is the
word for the thing I am looking for in... that thing that I get out of StarCraft, that's
"agon". It's the mutual... it's the non-destructive conflict, it's the mutual striving, it's the
respect for your competitor, it's your co-competitor rather than your opponent, your enemy. The
striving together to... the mutual striving, the striving together to overcome each other
and in the process overcome one's self and one's current boundaries. It's working with
each other but against each other to transcend one's self, to improve, to grow, which is
kind of bound up in that dialogical process that John Vivecki talks about. But in that
I started thinking about how John talks about how we've replaced Sophia with Philia Nikea,
the love of victory. And that's like a... in so many... like in StarCraft, people can't
do it because they can't... like so many people struggle to do match to StarCraft because
they don't want to lose. It's the fear of loss, of not winning, of not being good enough,
of not having victory. And that's like fucking... it's like that's taken over, that's an ever
present feature almost of our society and I think it's got a lot to do with capitalism
as well. Although I don't think that capitalism necessarily has to be like that. But I think
the capitalism we are in, that's taken over. But then I thought that's not really... that's
not really Philia Nikea because Philia is fellowship love. That is Nikea erotica. That
is the desire to have victory. It's the love, the desiring love of victory. And then that
got me... and you know that's a whole thing to think about, you know, in Argonne and Philia
erotica and all that. But then that got me thinking about the three kinds of love. Philia
erotica... eros and agape with, you know, where agape is the love for the other, towards the
other. It's the love... unselfish, unselfconscious, sacrificial love towards the other. It's the
love of the parent for the child. It's the giving love. And there's Philia which is,
you know, fellowship love, communion love, community love. It's the love you have for
your friend. And we've lost these terms. We just talk about love and like. And that's
something I've been thinking about in the process of trying to get into dating and also
trying to build more powerful connections and more intimate and real connections with
people in relationships. Like talking, thinking about these other kinds of love. And you know,
we've lost Philia. We've kind of lost all of them in some way. You know, and thinking
about Jayden. You know, my friends, like my closest friends Jayden, I don't want Jayden.
I don't have erotic love towards Jayden. I don't wish to have him. I don't want him.
It's not the having love. I don't want to give myself to him. Although sometimes, you
know, there is a giving element. I don't wish to be his parent. It's a between us. It's
a together and between us love. But then that got me to thinking that we have cheapened.
We need to rehabilitate Eros. We have cheapened it. I think part of this, part of it actually
is the, part of it actually is like the feminist pushback against objectification of women.
And you know, like objectification of sex and everything that comes with that. And that's
valuable but because there is definitely a degree of that. But I think in the process
we have turned sex into an Eros, erotic love into this almost bad thing, almost an evil
thing. And that's, it is just another facet of us. It is okay to want to have somebody
else. You know, you want, you know, we feel that and that's okay. We just don't have a
framework for how to navigate that in a healthy, in a healthy, respectful way. All we have
is I want to fuck you, basically. And that's just, it's not good enough. We need more,
we need better than that. We need more than that. And we need to not demonise and destroy
this part of our souls, give it space and respect it for what it is. You know, it's
the same thing as, exactly the same thing as Christianity. Demonising sex. Yeah.
