listening to episode 11 of Awakening from After Socrates.
He's talking about how Zeno of Sitium, the founder of Stoicism,
discovered and differentiated, made an important--
discovered a difference and then made an important differentiation
between meaning and event, as in, like, the event that happens
and the meaning that we have for it, the meaning that it has for us.
And he says that this has become erroneously seen as the same thing
in our modern culture as the difference between value and fact,
where one is completely-- you know, facts are just there
and they're completely objective and values are in our center,
completely subjective.
The thing that, you know, CBT and a lot of therapy is trying to draw on,
and I think it's in some ways maybe related to Buddhism,
it's what disturbs us is usually not the event itself
but the meaning that we give to the event.
It's being able to tell the difference between those two things,
the event and the meaning we give to the event, are necessary for wisdom
or an important part of wisdom.
Interesting, so John is saying that--
John would argue that rather than this--
rather than this--
rather than this-- what's the word that he uses?
This ambiguous term meaning, he would argue that what they're talking about,
what they discover, what they're talking about is religio,
how we are bound to events and how we relate to them.
Oh, actually hold on, what is he actually saying?
We're actually talking about is religio, how we are bound to an event,
how we are identified with it.
And they are seeking ratio religio, they're seeking--
but what's the proper proportioned way of being bound to an event?
So I think that ever more evidence that meaning is heavily tied up with
bound, like connection and relationship and being bound to things.
CBT uses some really helpful language that's
conversant with what the language he's been building,
like things like framing and fundamental framing, and he says that
rather than meaning, like fact and meaning, like event and meaning,
we should talk about framing.
Which is interesting, that means maybe there's a relationship,
this probably a relationship between boundedness, connectedness,
relationshipness, and framing.
And you know the meaning is tied up with
framing, which is really interesting. I'm just going to play it.
Reframing practice. In all those last couple of seconds I
clicked too early. Why am I going on to the note this?
Because it's tempting to think that the Stoics are nominalists.
What are nominalists? Nomalism is the idea that there's no meaning in the world.
It is all projected onto the world by language and mind.
This is very much in our fact value distinction.
Fact value distinction is a anomalous position because it says
facts don't have values. The only values that things have are the values we
project onto them. It's definitely within that other framework.
We have to put all that as a side as inappropriate.
Interesting, so he's basically saying that
he's talking about participatory knowing and how you know
our participatory knowing is largely reactive, unconscious, and
something our other term uses. He says the Stoics are wanting to
try to
reorient our... basically make us aware of our
perspectival and participatory knowing so we can reorient
our attention towards a connectedness to reality, basically.
They want to bring the process of co-identification where you're assigning
an identity to the world and assuming identity for yourself.
They want to bring that process into awareness through their practices.
The process of co-identification, the
agent arena binding together,
that's actually an existential... that is an existential mode.
He says that that process corresponds to an existential
mode. An existential mode is the way that an
agent arena relationship is unfolding and the things that come with that,
the framing that comes with that. Interesting, so he's
moving on to... he's talking about Irk from there next and I
think he's going to go into having mode and being mode.
He's talking about that from basically drew his distinction
between... I haven't actually said that yet,
but he drew that distinction from the Stoics
and he says that there's... if you want to see evidence for
argumentation for that link, there's a book by David...
something, Stephen Batchelor, which he mentioned in Awakening from the
Meeting Crisis. So it's probably mentioned in the
show notes for this as well. So I think he might be about to get
onto the stuff that I'm really interested in.
I mean I mentioned all of this but what he said... I forgot a little bit there. What
he says is that from drew connections between
Stoicism and Buddhism and that's what he drew on.
Also existentialism too and he says why existentialism is because
that because of the whole existence precedes essence that you know we are
self-defining, self-interpreting creatures which is... which means that we are
something... having mode and being mode and that from drew those from
Buddhism and Stoicism. I think he says yeah explains what the
having mode is and then says you know there is absolutely nothing wrong,
nothing morally bad about the having mode. It is
absolutely necessary. If you interacted with everything in your
environment in the being mode, if you tried to
form a close personal intimate relationship with everything in your
environment, you wouldn't survive. I love this. So he says the other one is
the being mode. From calls them the being needs in the being mode but
John says maybe a better word is actually becoming needs.
The big difference between the... the major difference between the...
there's probably several but one of the big differences between the having...
the needs that drive the having mode and the needs that drive the being or
becoming mode are that the need... the having mode needs are open-ended.
You know, they're needs that you need you fulfill by becoming something, by
maturing, by growing and they are open-ended. They just...
they're constant... they're never... they don't end. They're constantly happening
where like they're... they're not something you can achieve
basically. Whereas becoming mode... having mode needs are something that you can
tick off. You can... you can... you can complete. You know, it's a goal that you
can finish. And I think we get so wrapped up in that.
I think that's... you know, this... this productivity mindset is that
it is confusing these, you know, existential
ongoing open-ended development... developmental... Jesus Christ, dude.
Developmental needs with... we replace those with
having needs. Oh, if you buy this thing, if you have this thing, if you control it,
if you possess it, if you tick off this box, which is why
we're obsessed with ticking off boxes and
they're achieving goals. Rational and reasonable to... to say, you know, I've
had... that you have enough of this other thing. You know, I've drunk... I've had
enough water. That's very reasonable. Whereas it's maybe
not the same... you might not be able to say the same thing for, you know, I haven't...
you're always growing. You're always maturing and developing.
So he says, you know, notice that, you know, you... we would feel that we would be
disturbed by someone who said, "I have enough maturity. I don't need any more.
Any more would be too much." So he says, you know, in this mode, in the... in the
becoming mode, we are... we are trying to enter into
"ratio religio" with the world so that we can become
really interesting. So he says, you know, you know, this... this "ratio religio"
that you're looking for with reality so you can become is so that you can
realize yourself and become more mature. Because notice that
maturity... the hallmark of maturity is that you can take more of reality into
account. When you're an adult, you are more aware of
things. You can... you can work with more of reality. You can be more... you can take
more of reality into account
in your... your being than a child can. He says, you know, they're... they're more
responsible to... they face up to reality more than somebody who is less
