So, Holly responded to - I sent her Holly a big email, and she responded with a much
bigger email. And it's kind of...flawed me.
She was incredibly open and honest and vulnerable. And it's kind of awed me.
And I'm finding myself - before I read it, I was thinking...
I love you, Holly, but I hope we can find our way back to each other again at some point,
but I need time. I have been healing, and I need to keep doing that. So, maybe in a
year or two. That's what I was thinking before I read that email.
Now after reading that email, I'm fighting the urge to pack everything up, get on a plane,
lie down and be with her. Just move down there immediately. Such was the power of her email.
But I have to be cautious. I don't want to get swept up.
Part of that is probably my desire to not be in Brisbane. My desire to be away from
my parents. All of those things, part of it's probably...despite everything, I am still
a bit of a romantic. And it is a grand gesture.
But I am getting swept away, and I need to give myself the time to...at the same time,
I'm also like, we need to be realistic here. We need to face up to the reality of what
is happening, what has happened. We broke up for good reasons. We weren't working. And
there are ways in which our relationship probably isn't healthy for either of us. That way in
which we both get consumed, it's different. We get consumed differently. But the way in
which we both get consumed in our relationship probably isn't healthy for either of us.
And there are things we need to deal with. You need support, and I spend so much of our
relationship terrified that I'm not strong enough to be the support you need.
And I have a litany of fucking problems myself that I'm only just starting to uncover. And
I think in some ways our values might be very different. And I have finally started to come
into that, come into myself, and knowing what I am, what I want, what I need, what I care
about, what I value. And I can't go back to minimising myself in our relationship. I need
to stand up for the things that matter to me. There's also a small vindictive part of me
that feels like I should probably say no. I can't be in contact with you. So that she,
I guess, learns the lesson that she wasn't open. She said that the day after I left,
she went back to, the day after the last day we talked, she went back to that bench in
the park and sat there and realised that she'd made a mistake and that she spent, and for
me it's been three months of moving on and healing and for her it's been, you know, she
knew she made a mistake and she, what she wanted was to try again. But she had ideas
and expectations that were unrealistic. She expected me to come down and say I loved her
and sweep her up from my arms and she expected the fairy tale romance for me to know exactly
what I wanted and to take the initiative and to come down and say I'll do whatever it takes
to make this work. But that was never going to happen. That's not me. I inhabit uncertainty
and I care deeply about facing up as much as possible to the reality of things. And
that wasn't the reality of things. There was something I was leading to and I
once happened to forget what it was. She was saying that yeah, the last three months for
her has been, she has been thinking about this and trying to make the decision whether
to contact me every day since I left basically. So maybe what needs to happen is that I say
I love you, thank you so much for this, but things have changed. I have spent the last
three months tearing, trying to tear the future that I saw for Frost out of me and forge
a new path forward and pasting over with pasting over the pain and the, I'm not in the same
place, I'm not the same person in some ways. I'm realising in some ways what I need and
what I want, what I care about, what I didn't have in our relationship. That doesn't mean
I couldn't necessarily have it in our relationship, but it would be difficult and I can't just
turn on a dime. I know you've been stuck in our relationship still, but I haven't.
I thought that was the end. I thought I was never going to see you again. I thought I
was never going to hear from you again and I have acted as if that, acted in that way.
I have been trying to move on and that's probably what you need to. I think we need to both
accept that this is over and that you need to move on. We both need
to move on. I don't know. I want to be in that place of uncertainty and hesitancy that
I was in before where everything was up in the air and I don't want to be there again.
In some ways I wasn't being true to myself either in our relationship. I don't know whether
I was lying to myself, but I was minimizing myself.
[Music]
