So, I'm listening to the second episode of the Voices with Viveki interview on science
fiction and philosophy and the place of Star Trek in our mythos. And they're talking about
that, like post-modernism, they've been talking about modernism, post-modernism, metamodernism,
all that kind of stuff. And they, what is it, they, they, they, they, so John talks,
it says, he tries to frame it as, so they're talking about how the developmental stages
and how we need to integrate, we can't just throw out what we previously had, we need
those things, but we also need to move from beyond them. And John talks about neither
nostalgia nor utopia. And then they talk a bit about Top Gun and how, you know, it's
Top Gun maverick and how it's a, like it's a very, you know, that Thomas Wings or whatever
his name was guy talked about how it was a modernist movie. And this guy, Damien something,
is saying it's actually a metamodern movie because it's, yes, we like, you know, stuff
like Top Gun became desperately uncool and you know, it's values we actually don't really
agree with that much anymore. You know, the American guys in the jet fighter pilot is
the good guy, he's blowing up the gross, horrible, evil, middle eastern people kind
of thing. But we still want stories like that basically. You know, we still need those sorts
of things sometimes. And it made me think about, yeah, like no utopia but no, no utopia
but no nostalgia and no utopia as this, I kind of like the space I'm in at the moment
where it's like, kind of like this space we're in at the moment where we're trying, or sorry,
not we're, where I'm in where I'm trying to hold on to the things that are important from
the past like, you know, I'm trying to reconnect with the sacredness and spirituality and things
like that and you know, the importance of things like rationality. But I'm also trying
to, especially in like, in relationships, but it also just, it's this recognition, this
of really what my, the direction my worldview is going in, this recognition that there is
no utopia, that things are always going to be, things are always going to, there's no
end point, there's no perfect final answer, things are always going to be hard, things
are always going to be, you know, life sucks. And actually dealing with that, actually accepting
and dealing with that in a sincere way without being like, but also nothing, because of that,
nothing fucking matters. Everything's awful all the time. It's like, well no, everything
isn't awful all the time. But life does also suck and it's probably always going to. You
know, and your relationships, no relationship is perfect, they're always going to be hard,
et cetera, et al. All of these, these are almost more realistic. Oh wow.
[Music]
