So it's about a week after Holly contacted me again.
I'm having very mixed feelings.
I don't think I've talked about it, but over the weekend, on Saturday, we had a very big long call.
We spoke for like most of Saturday to be honest.
And it was really wonderful.
I felt really reconnected and she kind of took responsibility for a few things, but also
talked about some things in ways that made me feel quite
made me feel quite
like hopeful I guess, or that
problems that I had with our relationship or in our relationship
a few of them were maybe not actually problems anymore.
But as time has gone on, I've been finding myself
my chest, I get really like uncomfortable with this.
Oh, I need to stop for a second.
I'm really tight, slightly panicky actually, not panicky but like that same sort of like
breathlessness and tension and not pain but tension in my chest.
Confronting this pain and anger and upset, sadness and upset and disappointment is
scary and painful and knowing that that might mean that I hurt Holly
is scary and painful.
I can feel a breathlessness
of quite a strong tightness in my chest, actually a tightness in the back of my, or like the bottom of my throat.
And a desire not to talk, a desire to
to
avoid I think, or to run away from this.
Still feeling it but it's important to talk about some of this stuff so
yeah, I'm finding, so I got very swept up in the feelings of love and hope and excitement
and all those sorts of things when we talked over the weekend.
But as the weeks gone on I found
myself going through a lot of kind of disorganized attachment-y sort of stuff like
wanting to reach out but then getting scared and like an underlying feeling of Holly saying
"I'm thinking of you" or building our own traditions would be nice to me being like "Whoa whoa whoa whoa"
having this internal feeling of like a fucking slow down there.
Like, don't be thinking about the future, we don't know what's happening here, I have
barely
you know, I, yeah, she's getting very swept up in things from her side too and
this morning, and as time's going on I'm realizing I am actually still very fucking hurt.
You know, she said some things that were very hurtful that I'm very hurt about by
but more than that they also seem to confirm to me that
there are ways in which our values were very different, are very different and probably for me incompatible.
Ways in which we see the world that are to me incompatible.
And
I
I
what am I trying to say?
Yeah, and also after that, after that, the end of things, or what I thought was the end of things
you know, I spent a lot of time being quite hurt and upset and angry and I spent a lot of time
you know, because that was it.
I spent a lot of time thinking about
how
partly because some of the things you said revealed those, felt like they revealed those things to me but also partly because as a way to
move on and deal with and you know, make what had happened okay and move on and deal with things. I also, you know
interpreted them or I spent, I started to think a lot about how we probably weren't right for each other, we probably weren't compatible.
And that was probably, you had probably made the right choice, it was probably for the best that we didn't do things.
And now I'm having to confront all of that stuff while talking to you and also getting swept up in the excitement and the love and all of those things.
But it's not the same anymore.
All of that.
Yeah, I'm also really scared of hurting Holly, I'm scared of
building up her excitement around all of this and then
saying no and ending it all but at the same time as she said, she was aware that might happen.
Part of why I wanted time and distance and to take things slow because I can't just get swept up and shit.
I need to also be a bit more rational about it and confront things, confront my other feelings about things.
Basically I don't want to hurt you and I don't want to disappoint you but at the same time I'm also hurt and angry and
that hurt and anger and feelings of incompatibility and all that stuff is coming back.
I have to face that and I have to confront you about that and it feels kind of pointless to continue doing what we're doing until we do.
Basically. But at the same time I'm really scared about doing it and I don't know how to do it in the right way.
It feels like a waste of time and just potentially making things worse if we try to start reconnecting and the whole time I'm like,
I don't know if this is going to work for me because of everything I've been thinking about and dealing with.
That's kind of the thing.
