I'm listening to the second episode of the Voices with Viveki episode about science fiction
and philosophy and the... what's it actually called? Science fiction and philosophy, Star
Trek's deep commentary or something like that with Walter, something Walter. His name?
Damian Walter, who's I think a story writing or storytelling academic or teacher or something.
But he's talking about how science fiction and particularly the... he kind of talks about
how there's these sort of two strands of science fiction where there's this... there's one
strand which is the kind of more prototypical science fiction which is like spaceships and...
I mean it's all kind of got spaceships but it's about the scientific, military... basically
he's equating a lot of it with the kind of like enlightenment, rationalist, modernist
paradigm. And that a lot of people are really into the... I can't remember an example. I
think Star Trek is kind of... sorry Star Wars is and in a lot of ways Star Trek is
this... he says like 70% of his fan base likes that strand and the other strand where it's
all about the taking what we have now and advancing into the future with the pinnacle
of our technology being starships. It uses a particular term interstellar spaceships
where they can move between stars. And... interstellar spaceships. And then there's
another strand of it which is... and that strand tends to be very much in that... like grounded
in that rationalist, modernist view because it... in comparison with the other strand which
is much more psychedelic and transcendent which gives the example of like 2001 A Space
Odyssey and I think probably stuff like maybe Annihilation as well is a good example where
it's like maybe pushing the... whereas this other strand is basically just like hard sci-fi,
hard science and then taking it into the future but still like limiting the religious overtones,
the transcendent overtones. Limiting it to like kind of our world but with more advanced.
This other strand just trying to like explore the transcendent and the psychedelic and push
the boundaries of reality and the mind and things like that. And he talks about how this...
you know this... I guess hard sci-fi... hard spaceship-y sci-fi, hard science-y sci-fi version
is basically like the religion of... the modern religion of modernism. It's like... it appeals
to the modernists, the engineering minded, that kind of stuff. Whereas this other one
has... takes you to the boundary of awe and the numinous. This other one doesn't really
do that that much. But basically they're talking about how... you know so this hard science
strand is kind of the religious manifestation of... or it's kind of like the narrative,
it's the mythos of basically our scientific modernist capitalist world. It's this culmination
of this religion, like this modernist religion of progress basically. And with the progress
being eventually we'll make it to space and solve all these problems... we'll make it
into stellar space and solve all these problems with technology. And they're both of these
like John Vivecki and Damian Walters are both saying basically like that's probably never
going to happen. Like we are not... probably never going to get into stellar spaceships.
And you know like a lot of the world is not ready to hear that. Like you know think about
Jayden, all of his hopes resting on technology that will solve the entropy problem. All that
kind of stuff. And how this also links into what the ARC Druid talks about and the ARC
Druid report talks about and like busting that kind of progressivism space mythology myth
and how he talks about other strands of... other versions of sci-fi that... how sci-fi
has kind of become congealed around that. Solidified, ossified around that view. And
how... and how... you know there was other... particularly early on in sci-fi there was other
things that tried to do other things that weren't just that hard sci-fi sort of... that
other hard sci-fi range. So this is all this is really interesting but it got me thinking
because they're talking about narrative and storytelling and mythos and how you know we're
bound up in these narratives and you know what the mythos that we work with are. And
it got me thinking that Star Citizen is in some ways almost like the culmination of that.
You know in the absence... it's almost like the rapturous... the rapturous... I don't quite
know how to put it... in the absence of actually having those things in reality it's like it's
trying to be that. It's trying to be the culmination of all of that in the absence of actually having
those things in reality. And you can see it is... Star Citizen is almost a religious experience
like the depth to which it's going, the complexity, all of that shit. It's almost like... and all
the shit it copes is kind of like a... almost like resentment and a feeling of betrayal from
all of these people who are such massive sci-fi fans. And this is like the peak of it you
know. This is like almost the best you could do with a sci-fi game. It is like the closest
thing you could get to actually living that experience is what it's trying to do. Yeah
that's a really interesting thought Star Citizen has and you know what they talk about, what
Jonathan Faveki talks about a lot with you know how we're getting wrapped up. We're retreating
to the virtual. It's almost like you know in the face of all these issues we're retreating
to the virtual, a virtual version of the culmination of this modernist sci-fi mythos. Which may
never actually be able to be realised, likely never according to them and I honestly think
they're probably right. Never, may never be able to be realised. Part of this is they're
talking about the symbol of the Starship. I'm just going to actually lay out what he says.
I'm just going to record exactly what he's saying. Yeah I think that there are moments
like that. Maybe a way into this is to think about like the symbol of the Starship. Right.
Because it's a fascinating symbol. It's Lenny and Falcon, it's the Starship Enterprise,
so many other occurrences and we'll probably never have a Starship. Although to many people
it seems like a reality. So it is a very religious symbol because it represents in some ways
ultimate power. It's the pinnacle of our technological achievements but it also takes us beyond where
we are. It's a chariot of gods in a sense. Yeah, yeah very much, very much. And you know
the thing we remember is the Starship from all these things. It lingers as a character.
Remember, it's the Starship from all these things. It lingers as a character and we even
bring it to life with AI, with its ability to commune with us. So I think that what he
mentioned, I doubled up there for a moment because I set it back but kept recording.
I think that mention of AI as well is also important because I think AI is the other
kind of embodiment of this. AI and kind of like the Starship are the two kind of like
culminations of this sort of religious mythos of the rationalist modernist scientific enlightenment
project I think. I'm not quite sure what they mean but it seems like they're talking about
how a lot of this sci-fi is maybe starting to push towards going beyond reality as kind
of like the next border to move into and then John's like yeah well then that's bringing
back the numinous, bringing back the secret that is missing from a lot of this strand
of sci-fi. It's interesting he's talking about how science fiction is torn between the golden
age of sci-fi which is just that's what he says. I think it's probably like the early
stuff like Frank Herbert and Asimov's Foundation series and all that kind of stuff and he talks
about the new age of sci-fi of stuff like Ursula K Le Guin and Samuel Delaney and apparently
this stuff does go into more of the numinous stuff. Interesting so the whole point of these
two discussions is that he's basically talking about how Star Trek is kind of like the mythos
for our time because it navigates in between all of the major mythos, mytho- mythos, mythological
narratives of I think the traditional, the modern and the postmodern. It has elements
of all of them because it's you know like it has elements of the modern because it's
you know they're bent on you know they have this really structured environment and you're
kind of like almost a utopian thing where but it's arising from science and rationality
but then also the this postmodern although I think this is a little bit weak but the
postmodern stuff of like the importance of social justice because you know they they
go and help less civilised or less developed, less technologically advanced cultures and
often save them but they but they also are trying not to they have to have this prime
directive of not interfering although they're supposed to go against each other but the
thing that they're saying is that they solve these problems. Science is like the thing
that always is the it like it's like a paon to science. It's you know science is what
they use to solve all the problems to save the day and he's saying what it needs to add
to to to really bring it into what could be added to Star Trek to bring it into to to
what we need is to add what John Levy is talking about which is wisdom. It's not just science.
We don't just need science and rationality we need wisdom which as John talks about is
basically the capacity to to escape well not escape but the capacity to to overcome self
deception and self destruction which I think is basically meta rationality. It's it's
gaining relevance realisation to point at itself at I'm actually not entirely sure.
Yeah it's it's using it's building wisdom by transcending the previous things and yeah
I'm not entirely sure but seeing through illusion which isn't that's I think a bad way of putting
it but it's it's seeing through the the problems of modernism and postmodernism and those ways
of seeing the world and by by transcending them and you know being open to the sacred
open to the numinous all of those things. I really understand what what what John's
talking about his argument because I've got the fact that wisdom is is those two things
but what the relationship is because he's also pushing for the sacred and the numinous.
I need to go back and probably look at the the sections where he's talking about you
know basically the 30s and 40s where he's talking about so he lays out relevance realisation
and then he goes into to the sacred and then from there he goes into wisdom and I think
I need to probably pay attention to those again to to really understand what what he's
arguing for because he's bound those together that that what that what we need is a re a
rediscovering of the sacred and and rediscovering wisdom. The other co-host is saying yeah like
this is where it goes into the metamodern where it's like hey you know what is the wise
thing to do and I get and I think that's interesting because it's pointing at the fact that I guess
the things before metamodernism are lacking wisdom. You know modernism is kind of knowledge
without wisdom and postmodernism is the critiquing of knowledge without wisdom but then without
adding the wisdom I think or maybe you could say you know in some ways maybe metamodernism
is just the latest development of postmodernism but it's like kind of here and there really.
Either more developed than postmodernism or metamodernism is is yeah it's really really
interesting he's basically saying yeah like so you know what is the wise thing we can
do for some issue and he picks transgender transgender issues which is you know a really
like a massive point in the cultural war because all of the different mythologies mythos narratives
we have the three maybe just the two because I'm not sure how different the modern and
the pre-modern are about transgender issues. There's a lot like they're massively massive
amounts of disagreement and it's like well you know what's the synthesis what's the what's
the wise thing we can do what's the metamodern thing we can do with this which is probably
I think what I'm thinking about which is to realize that maybe gender is real in some
ways but it's also more complex and more nebulous than we think it is and to to to be comfortable
with that makes the work I'm interested in feel so much more important as well because
it's like what John talks about stealing the culture like if we can really make this more
explicit really dive into this and make it apparent and then you know start to influence
the the the cultural products that are around us to make them more in this vein you know
to to you know can you imagine a show that talked about transgender issues or gender
issues in the way that I'm thinking about or you know that people are like in in this
camp are thinking about that's oh like god damn how how amazing would that be and and
how that's probably too much to do that to to dive into these things and then also extrapolate
it out into like cultural products artifacts it's probably too much for my lifetime for
me to do on my foot me to do but you know imagine working diving into these things and
then working with shows books authors showrunners game producers all of those things designers
to really like work to to get those like not just wait for them to to take up these ideas
but actually like go out and work with them look to go out and work with them which you
know makes me feel like it's it's building connections with artistic creative people
in those spaces is probably a good idea if I if that's something I'm interested in which
I kind of already am like most of my friends a lot of my friends are either like in games
or you know in art yeah I don't really know too many writers or showrunners or anything
like that but that's that's an area I am I'm more in that area than in the sciencey hard
sciencey sort of area I don't really know any scientists yeah interesting interesting
so he's basically he's saying that he thinks that he thinks that if we get to a Star Trek
that people really love again it will they will it will be already doing these things
he's predicting that what we're doing diving you know exploring the numinous and exploring
wisdom I mean he's saying you know that we like again Star Trek that we like again again
in the sense of like in contrast to the latest series of Star Trek and you start to new generations
or Star Trek discovery or something like that that is that everybody fucking hates apparently
because it's it's the one that people are like tearing it apart for being woke and he's
trying to push back against that be like it's not so much the wokeness it's it's the postmodernist
of it yeah this is also it's making me interested in this is kind of reigniting my desire to
engage in because I've been so fucking sick of of so many of our cultural products cultural
artifacts like so much movie so many movies TV shows all that shit I'm so tired of all
of it but it is making me realize there is definitely still things I like and it's also
making me want to watch things to explore them to critically analyze them not just to
watch them saying that the last 10 years of Star Trek the JJ Abrams movies and the and
latest not actually not latest but the previous series Star Trek discovery were aggressively
postmodern rewrites of Star Trek whereas there's a new series strange new world may not be
quite that maybe yeah so they're saying that strange new worlds the latest series is too
retro so it's going back too far the other way it's going into nostalgia it's not moving
forward it's looking backwards a sucker yes he's saying that yeah if the next great mythos
we'll get that we will get and probably what we need is a psychedelic trip into the numinous
and an expansion of under trying to get him trying to explore what we need what the why
solutions are to our problems basically.
