As part of our talk this afternoon, Holly was quite open and candid about how she was
feeling about the men side of things.
It doesn't matter how lovely they are.
There's part of her that doesn't feel like it's possible for her to be in a relationship
with a man.
Or even a relationship at all at the moment, but even a relationship with a man.
And she did have the capacity to note that in some ways that might be irrational.
Specifically because of her feelings around men.
Because everything bad that's ever happened to her in her life has been at the hands of
men.
And because of patriarchy.
The patriarchy.
Patriarchal systems.
Because of that.
Yeah she basically touched on some things that were directly related to things that
I had felt.
It made me feel more connected to it.
It made me feel more sympathetic towards those things.
If I value kindness and empathy, I should have the kindness and empathy to be there
for or to accept that side of her.
And I kind of do.
I understand where it comes from.
The thing is, I don't necessarily want to be her crash test dummy for working that out.
Because I already was that.
And I already dealt with the consequences.
That side of her hurt me very deeply.
That part of her way of being or her way of seeing the world impacted me a lot.
And it hurt me very deeply.
And it made me deeply uncomfortable.
And it also conflicts with my values a lot.
So I don't, yeah, like, I understand but I also don't, that doesn't necessarily mean
I want to deal with it.
Basically.
It was illuminating her talking about that though and I'm actually quite thankful that
she did it.
She was quite candid and vulnerable about it.
And I didn't feel angry about it.
I felt like, "Oh, thank you for telling me that."
And it felt, I don't know, like a little bit of an easing of hurt, I think.
A little bit.
But that still doesn't mean that I necessarily want to deal with that.
And that's maybe something I need to tell her at some point.
Like, "Look, Holly, I went on like completely well as much as somebody who hasn't been through
this experience can understand that your feelings around men.
But the thing is, that impacts me and it did impact me quite a lot in our relationship."
It felt like quite often, like honestly quite often you steamrolled over my experience and
just assumed things about me all the way the situation was through the lens of feminism.
It felt like you weaponized feminism and used it against me.
Rather than actually sitting with my experience, you just said, "No, you're doing this because
you're a man."
And never, like sometimes I didn't, sometimes I tried to talk to you about it and often
I didn't because, "What the fuck am I supposed to say to that?
That's completely invalidation.
How am I supposed to argue with that?
I didn't feel like I could argue with you.
Disagree often didn't feel like I could disagree with you about that kind of stuff at all because
you felt like you were so fucking right.
And you did, you fucking shut me down.
I can't take you seriously because you haven't read enough."
So I don't know if I really want to deal with that again.
I understand that part of you.
I completely understand, like it's valid and you need to step into that anger and accept
that and see where that takes you.
But I don't know if I want to be along for that ride because it did impact me and honestly
it kind of conflicts with my values.
And the way that it makes you act at times and the way that it makes you think at times
conflicts with my values.
So I'm not invalidating it.
I'm not saying it's a...
I think in some ways it is a bad thing, kind of.
But it impacted me and you don't really show much in the way...
If anything you seem to be going... leaning further into it.
That's one of the things I struggle with the most in our relationship.
