So I need to note this down, it's really interesting.
So I've just noticed a trigger.
So I had a big conversation with Holly tonight, talked for about two hours, and as I was driving
home she texted me and said, "Talking to you like that tonight made me want to fall asleep
next to you and wake up next to you and get coffee and all those sorts of things, look
into each other's eyes."
And I immediately felt a spike of guilt, fear, I'm not quite sure what.
I felt triggered immediately of a feeling like of, "Oh, I don't know if I feel the same."
And yeah, I think it's both guilt and fear, or shame and fear, I'm not really sure.
I think it's shame and fear.
And a bit of a like, "I don't know what to do about that."
My response would have been to respond in kind even if I didn't necessarily feel the
same way.
I don't really know how to respond, but this is very noticeably a trigger, and this was
a trigger that happened a lot actually I'm recognizing in my relationship with Holly.
Feeling like she wanted to be with me more than I wanted to be with her, she wanted to
talk to me, or if we had a conversation and she came away from it really feeling emotional
and wanting to spend more time together, and I came away from it being like, "That was
nice," and not really wanting to spend any more time together.
Right now I don't want to talk to her anymore.
I want to go home and do my own thing.
It did make me feel safe, safer, and it did make me feel more connected to her, but it
didn't make me want to...
I don't think it makes me want to curl up next to her.
And that difference makes me feel scared that I'm going to hurt her, makes me maybe feel
ashamed that I don't love her enough, scared or ashamed that I don't love her enough.
Just a difference in those feelings I think is really triggering for me.
That's really interesting.
I'm not saying I might talk to my therapist tomorrow about actually, and I'm not really
sure how to act on that.
Yeah.
But I do feel more connected to her.
I just don't really...
I don't think I feel the same way that she does.
I think I may be slower to dip my toe back in the water.
I'm also noticing a feeling of a pressure to respond.
I feel like I need to respond to her.
Otherwise, one, I'm going to hurt her, and two, I think it's because of mum, my experience
with mum, but also honestly in some ways it's my experience with her.
With Holly, when I didn't respond to her sometimes she would get upset.
I just wanted to avoid that.
I see the internal pressure of like, "Oh God, I need to respond, but I also don't know how
to and I don't feel the same and I'm terrified of it."
It's like, "Ahhhhh!"
So I can spiral.
That's what I need to talk to my therapist about tomorrow, I think.
I'm going to respond to Holly's text because I don't think I should do what I used to do,
which was respond in kind even if I didn't necessarily feel that.
I'm also not sure...
I don't know if I should be like, "I don't know if I feel the same way," because that's
confusing.
She's said that she doesn't really want me to work out my feelings with her in some ways.
But I also don't entirely know how I feel.
And I also don't know if I should just go for, "Thank you, but I don't feel the same
way."
I don't know if that's necessary.
Can I just say, "Thank you?"
That's really lovely.
What Ryan talked about, really acknowledging her feeling and being like, "I really...
It makes me feel connected to you that you feel like that, and it makes me really...
It makes me hap...
Well, it doesn't actually make me happy.
It stresses me out."
But it also, on a level, does make me...
That she feels connected to me in that way makes me feel glad and loved and connected
to her.
However, then it also triggers...
It does also trigger the fuck out of me.
So I don't want to just...
I want to be able to stand up for myself and my feelings while also not...
I also really...
I'm really grateful for that, and I want her to know that her feelings are valid and that
I'm grateful for that.
How to do that, I don't know.
How to not feel like I have to do the same...
Not necessarily feel the exact same way and that be okay, but also her feelings be okay.
Both of our feelings be okay.
Exactly what I need to talk to my therapist tomorrow about.
About tomorrow.
The reality is I just have to do something and recognize that that's the best I can do,
and if I say something like, "Thank you, and I'm really glad that you feel like that, and
it makes me feel more connected to you that you feel like that," but not also say the same
thing back and that upsets her, I just have to accept that that's the case, basically.
Thank you.
