We had a call at lunch to resolve some, to sort out what was happening with the trip
and we've decided to not go ahead with it straight away.
It's too expensive.
And then we had a call again on the way home.
I didn't really want to do it all that much.
I was thinking beforehand about messaging her and saying actually quite a lot.
I was thinking a bunch about messaging her and saying, "Hey, was there anything else
you wanted to talk about to do with that stuff?"
Because if not, I might just skip the call this afternoon because I didn't really actually
want to talk all that much.
And then I called her for some reason and there was stuff to talk about it, but it only
took like five, 10 minutes.
And then we talked for 40 minutes and I didn't really want to all that much.
And it's the same shit as it was.
It's like I can't, I know that's not really what I want, but I can't stand up for it because
I'm worried it's going to hurt her or I'm not quite sure.
I probably need to explore that with my therapist.
Why I'm still struggling to do what I want.
I think it's probably because I still feel like that's bad that I don't want to talk.
I think it is.
I think that's why it is is I feel ashamed of not wanting to talk or I feel bad.
I feel like that's a bad thing.
But the whole point of this is that we need to be both be who we are, actually are, be
authentic and stand up for what we want to need.
And if that means that we are, and if this is going to work, we need to see who we both
really are and if those authentic usses can work.
So the more I do with what I did this afternoon, the worse that will be.
So I'd like to talk to my therapist about that, about still feeling bad, feeling like
that's a bad thing for one.
The other thing was, yeah, I can't remember.
I struggled to be uncomfortable and I don't know how to end phone calls either.
Same thing, I feel like it's going to hurt Holly and that's bad.
So I stay in conversations much.
And now she's just texted me and said, "I feel like I need to apologise for talking
a lot."
And that's the thing that happened.
Like Holly can pick up on it.
I'm not really that present in the conversation because I don't really want to be there that
much.
And she can pick up on that and it makes her feel bad, it makes her feel like a drain and
a problem and it's bad for both of us basically.
Hey.
Yeah.
