So I just had a bit of a light, kind of a light bulb moment.
I was thinking about what I was just talking about in my other journal about how, I was
thinking about how that triggering I get around when somebody expresses their feelings of
love towards me and if I don't feel, wanting to spend time with me and I don't feel the
same way, I get triggered.
As part of that I was thinking about how, fuckin hell that's fucking loud, as part of
that I was thinking about how I can feel like that but then I can still say to Holly, I
know that I love you and Holly can say the same to me.
And that goes back to John Viveci's thing, love is not a feeling, you can hate somebody
and still be in love with them.
And I was thinking, okay so what is love?
It's a mode of relating, it's a way that you relate to something because you relate to
everything pretty much.
And then I thought, okay well what does that mean, a mode of relating, if you're relating
to something what does relating to something mean?
It means how something is for you and how you are towards or for or with that thing.
How you should comport yourself towards it, how you should be towards it, how you should
feel about it, how you should think about it, how you should act towards it, how you
should orientate yourself, how you should relate to it.
That's what a mode of relating is.
Love is a mode of relating, you can hate somebody and still relate to them, have a mode of relating
of love.
And what exactly that means, I'm not entirely sure but you can feel it.
Love is not a feeling but you can still feel it.
Part of how you know that you're in love is that you feel it.
But it isn't a feeling.
You become aware of love through feeling but also through how you relate to something.
Wow.
Okay and how you relate to something.
And that's why love is participatory.
Because it's a mode of relating that you participate in.
It's participatory knowing it's an agent arena relationship.
It's the arena of your loving relationship.
And it's the agency you take up within that arena.
It's how you are towards, it's how you be towards the arena of your love or the other.
The thing is, it's an either relationship, it's participatory, it's the being mode because
you are relating to them.
Because the arena is another agent, it's another person that you care deeply about and you
care about their agency.
Wow.
Okay.
Yeah.
I like it.
