So I've been thinking about things with Holly a bit.
And, yeah, so I've been thinking about things with Holly a bit.
And I realised, I found myself thinking last night, I wonder if Holly would be open to something like Friends with Benefits.
I was thinking last night, and this morning.
I don't know, even independently of us, like inclusive of us, just like basically the point I'm at in my life right now.
Like, inclusive of us, but also beyond us, of our relationship. I'm kind of not sure if what I want right now is a, like what we had, a committed, long-term, serious relationship.
Committed, long-term, serious, exclusive relationship. All the things that one thinks of when one thinks of a relationship.
Not sure if that's what I'm looking for right now.
I...
Part of it is because I am kind of enjoying my life as it is.
There's definitely problems, but I'm kind of enjoying, other than the fact that I'm living with my parents and living in Brisbane, I'm kind of enjoying my life as it is, and I'm not sure I really want to change that right now.
I don't really want to be tied.
There is an aspect of committed, long-term relationships that means that you are tied to someone. You are giving up some of your, you are necessarily giving up some of your freedom.
You are necessarily, you know, you have to think about, I mean, any relationship, friendships, etc., you have to think about the other person.
Like, it's ridiculous to say, I don't want to think about other people, but there's something more of that in a long-term relationship where, you know, it's like, you can't just pick up sticks and leave, kind of thing.
And I'm kind of attached to my freedom, you know, how I have things at the moment.
The fact that I'm probably going to be moving overseas, I don't really want that decision to be influenced by, like, if we're in a long-term relationship, I'm probably...
If I was in a long-term, if I'm in a long-term committed relationship like what we had, I probably wouldn't move overseas until either the relationship ended, or my partner was willing, was ready and was able to and willing to move with me.
So yeah, I'm kind of just at a liminal space in my life where the future feels open and full of possibilities.
And a long-term relationship, a long-term committed relationship is kind of necessarily by its nature closes some of those opportunities down somewhat.
It means a level of... because of the level of commitment involved, it means a level of... I want to be able to just, if I wanted to, pack up and fucking go to the UK tomorrow, kind of thing.
And I like that. That's actually how I want things to be right now. But also after my relationship with Holly, after what that did for me, but also what...
But also... the time apart, particularly those three months apart, where I thought I was moving on, where I started to move on, that opened up a space of possibilities for me that has never been present before in my life.
I kind of want to meet other people. It feels bad to say, but I kind of want to just fuck around, literally.
It feels like my life is open in a way it never has been before. I feel able to meet people in a way I've never been able to before. I feel more confidence in myself, more confidence in what I need and what I want, and that that's okay.
And I'm discovering more confidence in what I want out of life and what the future might look like. Only the very beginnings of it, but something.
And I don't really want to stop that process, and a long-term relationship is kind of going to stop that process in some ways.
There's another part of it that I kind of want to have. I don't want it right now, but I do kind of want to have a long-term relationship with somebody that isn't Holly.
And that's not because Holly's not good. I don't think there is no such thing as a perfect relationship.
I mean, relationships can, I guess, can be better and worse. You can be an abusive person. I think in a lot of ways our relationship was better than a lot of your previous relationships.
But in other ways, relationships aren't really better or worse, they're just different.
Because there's always going to be good things and there's always going to be bad things. Every relationship you ever have, there are going to be difficulties and conflicts and differences and things like that.
There are going to be differences and messiness. And I kind of want to experience, it's like I want to experience myself.
And being in those kinds of relationships brings out other aspects of yourself. You discover other aspects of yourself. You grow in different ways with different people.
And I've never had that before, basically. I've never had a relationship, aside from us, I've never really had a relationship to the extent where I could grow in it.
Our relationship is the only thing that's ever, and I kind of want to explore, I kind of want to explore those possibilities and what it looks like and what it means for me.
And I kind of just want to experience that. I kind of want to experience love with other people.
That doesn't mean I don't love you, and it doesn't mean, part of this is, if I was more confident in there not being so many incompatibilities between us, or fairly big issues that we maybe would need to work through,
I would be a little bit more inclined to dive into a long term relationship. But honestly, even then, I'm not really sure that's what I want right now.
But I have been enjoying reconnecting with you. We do have a lot of chemistry.
And none of this is to say that I definitely don't want a long term relationship with you. But I'm not sure that's what I want now.
I don't, basically the future feels open and full of possibilities, and I don't want to commit to any of those. And I might not want to for a while.
I was very strongly considering just moving over to Scotland for six months, just to literally see what it's like. If that's not committing to it, that's just doing it.
Yeah. So I don't know.
Um. Yeah, I just, I'm not really sure if that's what I want. But I might also be open. Like, previously I was like, no, if we're not together, that's it. We have to move on.
That still may have to be the case at some point. Like, I might, I don't know, that may have to be up in the air. Like, that's always a possibility, basically.
And if I do meet somebody else at some point, and it does, if we do this, if we go down that path, and I do end up meeting somebody else and it's becoming serious, I will definitely have to stop the benefits part.
But depending on how I'm feeling, or, you know, like, I may still feel very attached to you, and that may make it difficult to get into another relationship.
I don't know.
I'm kind of interested in just, with us, and with other people, exploring the space of possibilities of what a relationship can be.
If that makes sense. Like, all I've ever, the only thing, I've had two things in my life. Well, sorry, kind of. I've had two kinds of relationships in my life.
Well, I've had three things, really. Nothing, which was the majority of it. A few spits and spurts of, like, a little bit of unserious dating.
And, which I was too, basically, nervous and anxious to really, and struggling for anything to really happen. And a committed, serious, what felt like was potentially going to be lifelong, serious relationship with us.
I kind of want to experience what other things relationships can be with you and with other people.
Um.
At the same time, previously, I found it really difficult to be, to be, the idea of being friends and not being together was really difficult because, like, every time I was around you, I just wanted to do the things that we did when we were in a relationship.
I wanted to call you the names I called you, I wanted to touch you in the ways I touched you, I wanted to be around you in those ways, be intimate with you in those ways.
Um. And I want to get more comfortable with my sexuality, and that means embracing it, and that means saying, I feel, I mean, our sexual relationship is a little bit difficult sometimes, let's be honest.
But, I feel far, I feel generally really safe and comfortable. Basically, pretty much, most of the time, other than some issues, I feel really quite, I feel really comfortable and safe with you when it comes to a sexual relationship.
And I feel a lot of sexual desire for you, like, I want you a lot, often, and quite a lot. We have a shitload of chemistry that I've never experienced, I've never experienced that kind of chemistry with anybody else in my life.
But, things are feeling a bit different for me now. They don't feel the same as they did before. I love you, but I don't know if I love you in the same way that I did.
There's maybe too many things to work through, and too many possibilities for me to want to be in a committed long-term relationship with you.
But I also, there's definitely a big part of me that would love to be friends with you, and something in between friends and a long-term relationship, kind of like friends with benefits.
I don't know. My experience of friendship with friendship has been either unsexual or it has been sexual, and that's been something I've had to keep to myself.
And a lot of my friendships haven't actually really been super vulnerable and intimate. I've been way more vulnerable and intimate with you than I have been with anybody else in my life, basically.
And I actually really value that, I kind of want that. But, yeah. I don't know.
I definitely don't want what we had before, the way we had it. But I don't think I want, yeah, I'm really not sure if I want that in any sense, in even a different kind of long-term relationship.
Of long-term, monogamous, serious romantic. In the way that we, well, not the way that we had it before. Like, yeah. I don't know how else to talk about it, but that I think gets enough of a sense of it.
I had been feeling quite, for most of last year, I was feeling quite, it has to be one way or the other. We either have to be together in basically the way that we were, maybe looks a little bit different, but still basically the way that we were.
The kind of relationship we had before. Or, nothing. And I'm not really sure that has to be the case. And I'm not also, like, I'm not saying that's, I have to be open to the possibility that that may be the case eventually.
That I might feel like that again, or that I might need to end our friendship or relationship or whatever we have if other things, certain things, like, you know, if I meet somebody and they're not okay with it, or...
All those kinds of things.
Yeah. But...
I kind of, I just kind of want to be open to possibilities in general. But now, yeah, now I'm not feeling as much like that. I'm kind of, I am kind of more open to the idea of, I'm not, I don't know how I feel about just being friends, because I find that quite difficult.
I think if we were going to be friends, I would maybe need a little bit more than just friendship. Like, I struggle to be around you and not have the same, some of the kinds of intimacy and things that we had before.
And it's difficult, because I'm like, you are the only person I've ever had it with and I'm desperate for it, so it's like, "Ugh!" But it's also really meaningful to me with you, those things. I found that very painful when we were around each other previously.
But all of that is also quite unclear and ripe for one or the other, like one or the other of us, or both of us to get confused or hurt.
So, our communication would have to be very, very fucking good. And we are pretty good at communicating, but also, sometimes we're not.
Yeah. The thing is, the way that we communicate, we don't, the way we communicate is not like any of my other friendships. I don't talk to the phone, talk to any of my other friends on the phone.
I definitely don't have weekly calls with them. You know, like most of my friends, I either see them in person or I have the occasional like, "Hey, how's it going?" kind of thing.
We talk a lot more outs like, I don't talk, most of my friends, I don't really talk to them all that much outside of meeting them in person, seeing them in person.
We talk way more outside of in person than I do with any of my other friends. And if we were to move to full on friends, I probably couldn't maintain the level of communication that we have.
Basically.
I like to see, like, the problem is, we can't do that because we don't live in the same fucking state. But I like to see people in person and I don't really like, I generally don't really like doing other forms of communication all that much. I really, I don't, I almost never, honestly, seriously, I almost never talk to anybody.
Like text and like Facebook messaging people, I do that a bit. I prefer to minimise that, I almost always would rather see somebody in person. Like I still have messages but I don't ever have extended conversations.
I like message people a little bit for like five minutes maybe and then move on. And then they'll message me and I don't respond and then I respond. The way that we communicate is nothing like any of my other friendships, my other relationships in my life.
And I find it in some ways kind of straining, to be honest.
And if we were to be, and I don't mind that if we are in a, like I didn't, it wasn't different, like it was probably not exactly what I wanted or needed when we were together the way that we did it. But what we do, I'm more okay with that when it is, when we are in a committed relationship.
But for friends, the way we communicate, I'm not sure I can continue to do for that much longer kind of thing.
Because I find it kind of draining, to be honest. I really just don't like talking to people outside of, in person, basically.
I really like talking to people in person. I love meeting them and chatting to them but I don't really like other forms of communication all that much. And I don't really do it all that much with really any of my friends.
Like, still maintain contact and keep up with people. Like, again, I message people but it's never for more than like a few sentences or a few, or like five minutes at a time. And that's pretty much how all of my friendships work.
I'm worried about saying some of these things to you because I feel like, this may be inaccurate, but I feel like sometimes you have a bit of a tendency to say yes to things like that and think that's what you want.
But then it turns out that actually that isn't what you wanted at all. And you were all just trying to hold on to us. And like through whatever means necessary.
That sometimes you don't really stand up for what it is that you need.
That maybe that doesn't work for you at all. But you won't stand up for that because you want to be connected still. So you'll take whatever you can get.
Kind of thing. And I'm concerned about that. Because I have to stand up for what I want but I can't do that for you.
And I do. Like, I take that on even when I don't need to or shouldn't. So I need you to really think about what you want and stand up for it.
Basically, I'm all blasting as I find that I can't date other people. I can't fuck around. As soon as we started talking again, I basically just met a couple other people and I stopped talking to them entirely.
Although there's other reasons for that as well. I entirely got off the dating app. I didn't want to do it. I couldn't think about it anymore.
I can't do that and be in the space that we were in. Whereas if we are, I might be able to do that when it's like...
If that's actually something we're going to explore. You said that shouldn't stop you. But it does. Basically, the space that we're in, it does.
