philosophise this. He's talking about referencing the last episode. He's basically bringing
together Billingstuhlhahn and what Bookchin said in the last episode, basically saying,
"Yes, you can, you know..." I'm just gonna fucking play it. Fuck it.
...talked about last episode, how when it comes to the environment, you can try to treat
just the symptoms of what's going on. You can pick up some trash, you can ban plastic
packaging, but it does nothing to solve the fundamental social issues that cause those
problems in the first place, just like that.
It's that. Which makes me care, like, that is more, yet more evidence to care about the
meaning crisis, because I think the meaning crisis is intimately wrapped up in... because
I think the meaning crisis is, I think, in part to do with the meaning crisis and what
Ian McGillchrist talks about of the tyrant, like... Basically what Ian McGillchrist is
talking about is the tyranny of the propositional. Basically, the tyranny of the left hemisphere
and the propositional. That's essentially what Ian McGillchrist is talking about, which
is part of what John LeVeighy is talking about. The tyranny of the propositional is an element
of the... I can't quite remember if... I don't remember if in the first 25 episodes part
of what he talks about is how that came about, how the tyranny of the propositional came
about, but he... That's part of the meaning crisis. I don't know if it's one of the symptoms
or the causes or maybe both of the meaning crisis, but I think that, that tyranny of
the propositional and the left hemisphere, because the tyranny of the propositional is
more about just propos... is about more than just propositions. It's about everything that
Ian McGillchrist talks about. That need for certainty and all that kind of stuff. I think
that is intimately wrapped up in so many of the societal issues we are facing at the moment,
which is exactly what he's saying here. You can treat the symptoms, you can be in plastics,
et cetera, et cetera, but unless you actually... Which is what I was... That's... And this is
why I don't care. This is it. This is justification. This is why... This is... Not justification,
it's explanation for why I don't care about behaviour change anymore. Why I've moved on
from that. Because that's just treating the symptoms. And honestly, it's like a whole bunch
of ethical issues. That is just treating the symptoms. That does nothing to resolve the
underlying issue that's actually causing those symptoms. And that's what I've always cared
about. I've never cared about treating the symptoms. I don't care about giving food to
starving children in Africa. I want to work on the underlying issue that is causing children
to be starving in Africa. And that doesn't mean that's not important. There are people...
We need people doing that work because we need people to be... Just like you take fucking
Panadol when you've got... Just like I am taking Ibuprofen at the moment to deal with the pain
of this tooth I have that's coming out. That's important. Otherwise, my life is shit. The
quality of my life is worse. We need people to be doing that work of helping sick kids
in... Helping sick and starving kids in Africa because their life is shit. And we need people
to be doing that. But there are already people doing that. We need more people doing that.
That is important but it's not the thing that I care about. The thing I care about is solving
the underlying issue that is causing kids to be starving in Africa rather than treating
the symptom of kids starving in Africa. I want to take the wisdom tooth out. I want
to be the dentist that takes the wisdom tooth out. And behaviour change, doing psychology
to get into behaviour change was taking panadol... Was taking Ibuprofen for the climate change
was the thing I was focusing on. John Dovecky's work and possibly more and even possibly even
deeper than that is being the dentist that pulls out the tooth that is underlying climate
change and probably a whole bunch of other things. And the thing is that's... The deeper
you go the less resolvable it is. The more difficult and complex it is the less resolvable
it is and the less you're going to probably see things happen in your lifetime. So that's
something I need to come to terms with I guess. But I'm convinced that that is the thing that
needs to be resolved. If we're going to get anywhere basically. And that's what I care
about spending my life doing. That's the thing I want to spend my life on. And I just...
I don't know how to get there. And I don't know how to get there while also not being
fucking desperately poor and having a very uncomfortable life. I don't want to be horribly
uncomfortable and poor my whole life. But I don't know how to do that and also do the
thing I actually care about which is working on this issue. Basically.
