Just a thought I've been having, well I've had I guess this morning, it's not a really
recurrent one, it's just started happening maybe last night when I was talking about
that, when I did that journal I did yesterday, about, it's one that's in folder B, it's
about, it's about, my feelings about calling what Israel is doing genocide.
And yeah, so that's not really what it's about, it's just, I'm listening to, it
philosophised this this morning because there's two new episodes that I haven't listened
to yet.
And it feels like as soon as Holly and I have made a decision not to continue with doing
things the way we're doing things and we're going to take a bit more space, it feels like
my capacity and my desire for philosophy increases dramatically.
Some of it's happenstance I think because what we were talking about yesterday as came
up in, as that journal I did yesterday shows, like we just so happened to have a discussion
about something that made me want to philosophise that I had a philosophical opinion on, I wanted
to philosophise about.
That kind of came up and I've just kind of stumbled, there just so happened to be two
new episodes of "Philosophise This This Morning" but just because there's two new episodes
doesn't mean I would necessarily want to listen to them.
There was episodes previously, like I could have been listening to all the episodes I
haven't listened to so far and I haven't, or "Philosophise This This" and I haven't
been because I didn't want to engage in philosophy.
It's like as soon as we take more space, like Holly said yesterday, we're a giant distraction.
She said, "I don't know if you know this but you're a giant distraction."
She's the same for me.
And as soon as we take what we were doing off the table, it's like the space I have
in my life for the other things I care about, like philosophy, opened up so much more.
And that's kind of what was happening.
Now, like previously, like when I was really interested in philosophy and I was going to
the library every weekend and reading a lot and doing research, that was in the period
where Holly and I weren't talking at all, basically.
So I think I actually would really like to move towards just doing letters, like we were
originally planning.
That's what we were planning to do when I left Melbourne that last time.
And just immediately turn into something else.
And I think part of that was because Holly was saying, "Shit, I've just, you know, after
that weekend I realized that I actually, that I love you.
I still love you and I can't change that."
And yeah, all of this.
And I, part of it is I wanted not to hurt her and I wanted to support her and I wanted
to, I didn't want to stop that part of her but at the same time I also wanted it for
myself because I felt that connection again over that weekend.
So yeah.
But as soon as we started doing that, like my desire to do philosophy and my capacity
for philosophy had dwindled in the weeks prior, even before Holly had contacted me.
Like I was starting to pull back on it a little bit and was starting to like do other things
instead I think.
But it's definitely the case that I've like just not had to, like, you know, I hired out
books from the library and just haven't read them at all.
I hired out a bunch of, like even just anything non-fiction I haven't had the capacity for
at all.
You know, work is partly to do that with that as well but it's just, I really think when
Holly and I are engaging in the way that we were, it consumes a lot of my capacity for
things. Partly because of worries, partly because of focusing on those things, just, yeah.
And those things are really important to me.
So I actually, and given, you know, we're not going to be in a relationship, it's something
I need to be aware of in future relationships definitely and I think it's part of why being
with somebody who I'm not their whole world and they have, you know, projects that they
care about and are passionate about and want to spend time doing and we want to support
each other and, you know, we support each other to do those things, that's really important
to me.
And that's what, that's kind of what Holly wants too but it's not what she was capable,
she wasn't capable of that.
I became her whole world and she outright said, not whole world but she outright said
that I, that she chases.
When there's a romantic connection, a sexual connection, she chases and it's partly because
she derives her sense of self worth and value from some, from other people basically.
And that's not healthy for her and it wasn't healthy for me and, you know, that makes me
feel really validated in feeling quite overwhelmed by her in our relationship because, yes, I
guess she was, she was chasing me.
She would, like, she would literally, in these last two weeks she has literally been texting
me every day.
She would basically want to call almost every day and she says she doesn't want to and that's
probably true.
There is probably a part of her that didn't want those things and was becoming overwhelmed
by it but the greater part, like the part of her that was more of her obviously because
... okay, thank you, that's not how it works but sure.
More of her was not doing that because that drive to chase and to seek validation maybe
and to seek self worth out of a relationship and a sexual connection, that's what ends
up controlling her behaviour more.
So she's got these conflicting drives and values and needs but the one that ends up
controlling her behaviour, like directing her behaviour more is the one that, the one
that is the need for validation and value and stuff and chasing in a romantic and sexual
connection.
And that impacted me a lot.
In a lot of ways, it was very triggering for me in a lot of ways because it brought up
lots of feelings of shame around maybe I don't love her enough or I don't love her as much.
It brought up feelings of ... yeah, I found it really overwhelming and then would become
ashamed of my overwhelm rather than just realising this doesn't work for me.
And hating that dynamic we had where I didn't want her to ... I was feeling overwhelmed by
her and her desire to, her chasing me and her desire to be interacting with me all the
time.
And I definitely, there was definitely parts of it I enjoyed, there's a lot of parts of
it I enjoyed and I kind of, some of it is probably I let my boundaries down and some of it is
probably a healthy opening up of my quite restrictive needs around those things.
So I did eventually kind of start to miss her a lot and want to participate in those things
but it was always, it was not one side, it was never one side, it wasn't like she wanted
it and I didn't or she ... but it was always she wanted it more than me.
I always feel like she wants more of me than I want to give her basically.
I always feel like in our, the dynamic in our relationship it always feels like I'm fighting
for space and she, part of her always wants space but is overridden by the part of her
that desires to chase, that wants to spend time with me all the time.
And I find that really overwhelming and it's incredibly triggering for me and I don't want
that in future relationships.
I want someone to be with somebody and it's difficult because I'm not in time, I'm not
really there myself either.
I also derived some sense of, definitely some sense of meaning and some sense of worth,
self worth from that relationship.
Like part of it was, the relationship was like I'm really struggling because what do
I have in my life without this relationship kind of thing.
That's something I'm, like I have hobbies but I'm still really struggling with, like
I have things I'm interested in, I have a lot of things I'm interested in but I'm still
struggling with like having a sense, having something I care about a lot outside of my
relationships, my intimate relationship.
So I need to do some of that work myself but I want, that's the relationship I want, two
people who have, who have, you know, can live their own lives independent of each other.
You know, they're not dependent on each other for validation and self worth and all those
things and they have things they care about outside of the relationship and they, so that
they're not constantly wanting to be around each other all the time and they, you know,
things that they want to do for themselves that are nothing to do with the relationship
and we support each other to do those things and Holly wants that too but she cannot, she's
not at a point in her life where she can actually bring that, like act in that way because she
doesn't have anything, like she's alone so I end up becoming basically her sole source
of, like, connection and, basically her sole source of connection and value and like all
those things and that is way too much for me.
Maybe that's enough, that's okay for some people but it's way too much for me.
I can't, I can't do that.
I don't want to be in that kind of relationship.
I don't want to be chased in that way and I also don't, you know, I want to be given the
space.
I want somebody who wants the space to do the things they care about and has things
they care about and has things outside of me.
I don't want to be somebody's whole world and in Holly's, in my relationship with Holly,
I end up feeling like I'm her whole world basically and she says that's not the case
but I really think it is and I know that's not, she doesn't want that to be the case
but that's what feels like ends up happening because of, you know, you deriving your need,
your worth and your value from me basically and I don't want to be in that position and
it's not the kind of relationship I want and I think this has shown us that that might
not be what you want but that's what, that's, maybe in other relationships you can do, it
can be different but in this relationship you can't.
That ends up happening and this has shown us that.
So I don't want to, I can't do a relationship and honestly it doesn't look like we can navigate
a sexual relationship.
It's not purely sexual and it can't be, it's never going to be but it's never going to
be but yeah, it makes me feel very validated.
That's what she said yesterday because that was like, yeah, I knew that the entire relationship,
you wouldn't admit it, you didn't want to admit it and I was really struggling with that.
I knew, like, I couldn't exactly put it into words but I intuitively knew that was what
was happening.
Not necessarily the reasons for it but your behaviour, like, yeah, I didn't know the reasons
for it but that was because of your need for self-aligned validation and deriving your value
and your worth from other people, from me in our relationship because you feel valueless
and you have nothing really else in your life.
But I do care about you but yeah, I'll get to that in a moment.
And I intuitively knew, like, what you have said your behaviour was, what you were actually,
I didn't know the reasons for it but what you were doing and what you finally admitted
to doing, I intuitively knew was happening the whole fucking time and I didn't like it
and I was really struggling with it and overwhelmed by it and I was getting really triggered by
it.
My wounds around shame and stuff were being really triggered by it so I couldn't even
like talk about it.
I couldn't talk about it to you.
It was just really fucking unhealthy and I don't want that at all.
I want no part of that but I also care about you a lot.
I don't want to be able to support you where I can.
I don't want that kind of relationship where we're constantly talking in that way.
I don't want to be chased by you.
I don't want to be your sense of validation and your sense of self-worth but I want to
be able to and I can't be your only support.
I can't be your only, your world but I still want to be able to stay connected with you
and support you where I can.
So that means I want to stay connected to you but I need much more distance than we
have had in this last, than we had in our relationship and that we've had and the only
way I can really think to make that happen is letters.
So I think I am probably going to this weekend call her, have a talk, see how she's going
and then say hey, I think I'd like to move to doing letters basically.
I want to stay connected to you.
I want to maintain this friendship, this relationship.
I care about you.
I don't want to end things but I need to have much more space between us and the only
way I can think to do that is, the only way I know, and I'm actually genuinely excited
about doing letters but the only way I can think of it to do that because as soon as
we're texting and calling, we're going to text and call each other more and more and
more and more.
That's the pattern we fall into and I don't want that pattern.
So the only way I can see to do it is letters.
And yes, as we were talking about, I do want to, if you need, if you're falling pieces
and you text me and say hey, I'm struggling at the moment, do you have 20 minutes to listen
to me vent, I want to be able to do that and I want to be able to do that for you and I
want to be able to have that form from you but my proviso is, we need to be, I can't
let that then turn into calling each other all the time, texting all the time, all that
sort of stuff because it triggers me, it takes over my life and I can't move on if we're
doing that.
So I want to be able to do that but it's dependent on whether we can still maintain
that distance.
If we do that and then it turns into we're doing that all the time, every couple of days
or we're texting constantly, if it turns back into what we've been doing, then I'm going
to have to stop doing it and just do letters for a while basically.
That's my proviso.
So yeah.
We need to be able to do that.
We can't make a relationship, like a romantic relationship work.
I don't want that and we can't make it work.
Not only that, we can't even make a sexual connection work or mildly intimate and romantic
relationship work.
All we can do at the moment I think is be friends.
I think that this has shown us that we can only be friends right now.
I do want to maintain that but I also need a lot more distance than we have had.
The only way I can see to do both of those things, the only way I can see to maintain
our connection and still be able to have space in my life to do the things I care about and
move on in my life, move on from you and not be consumed by you, is letters.
Yep.
[Music]
