So Holly and I have officially decided to move to just being friends.
We had a big discussion, actually this is discussion, the last little thing I did about the genocide.
That was the big discussion we had.
And last night I sent her, which is like a day later or two days later, Monday night.
So the big discussion was Sunday afternoon, tonight.
I sent her a text last night basically saying, "I know we're taking space and we should, but this is a bit hard, so I want to wish you a good night."
And she texted back this morning saying, "I do need a bit of space. Let's have a call this afternoon to talk about it."
And I thought we were moving to just doing letters.
Let's have a call this afternoon to work out, get on the same page basically.
And we did that.
So what we're doing is we are officially becoming, just going to be just friends.
And Holly would like some, like no contact for a week.
And after that we're just going to be friends and interact like friends would and contact each other.
We're not going to have any rules around how we want to contact each other.
We're not going to have any rules around how we're going to contact each other.
Brain's just turned off. We're not going to have any rules how we're going to contact each other.
We're just going to contact each other when and if and how we want to, like we would with any other friend basically.
Which means I have permission to treat her like I would with a friend.
Which means when she calls I'm probably not going to pick up. If she calls I'm probably not going to pick up.
I'll probably message her on Facebook occasionally. I've gotten rid of Instagram.
I'm going to date again at some point. I'll probably spend a bit of time not doing that.
Just how I interact with my other friends is how I'll interact with her.
Which means I'm not going to be fucking texting her all the time. When she texts me I'm not necessarily going to respond.
I'm definitely not going to be calling her. I will not call her because I don't call people.
I'm never going to call her. If she calls me then I may pick up if I feel like it or have the capacity or have the time etc. etc.
I do actually legitimately want to move to doing... like the idea of being pen pals with her actually sounds really cool.
And I probably will end up doing that. But honestly I probably won't really message her.
I'm definitely not going to call her and I probably won't really message her all that much.
I won't text her. Maybe if I see a nice sunset or something I might send her a picture.
But other than that I probably won't message her all that much.
Just because that's what I do with my friends. I see them in person.
And when I'm friends with somebody I can't see in person I just tend to not really...
It's not that I end up... like I stop being friends with them. It's just I don't really...
It's not that I fall out of contact with them either. I know where most of my friends are.
Most of the friends that I care about I might know where most of them are.
And I still occasionally have messages with them. Once every year I'll shoot up just a quick catch up.
Say "Hey, how you going?" I had talked to Ross for two or three years and we talked again recently.
Those friendships continue but I only... If I can't see them semi-regularly...
If I don't live in the same city and I can't see them, I can't visit them then...
That relationship doesn't really go anywhere else.
The friendship doesn't end but it's not a super close friendship anymore.
And that's I guess what Holly and I's friendship will be.
Yeah, I don't know. That feels bad I guess but at the same time also good because it gives me permission to move on.
But it's also a very sudden change. And it might take a bit of an adjustment.
I've never interacted with Holly like a friend and she is not used to me interacting with her like a friend.
I have interacted with her in a very different way to how I interact with my friends.
So yeah, I'm not sure how that's going to go. And I'm also a bit torn up because it's like...
Well, one, it's a very large, very quick adjustment.
Like very large, very quick change. And it's the same thing as last time.
Like if I see her just being friends, she's already said, "You can't text me like what you did the other night where you just said hey, goodnight, etc, etc."
Because you don't do that with your friends. That's more intimate than you would be with your friends.
And that forced loss of intimacy is really fucking painful for me.
And I don't know if I can maintain a friendship and also have that forced loss of intimacy.
It might be either I have to be with you or I don't or we end our relationship.
That loss of intimacy is... I don't know. I definitely couldn't before. We'll see how it goes now.
My feeling is this, I'll probably try to treat her like I do a friend for a bit.
Maybe send letters, which is not something I do with anybody else.
And it's actually a sign that I'm not treating her like a friend, but at the same time it's like maybe maintaining that relationship in a different way.
Still having distance enough to move on.
But I kind of suspect that it will probably just end up... that friendship will probably just end.
Because it will really depend on how much we're in contact with each other.
If she is calling me often, then I'm probably going to pull away.
Or be like, "Look, I don't talk to my friends on the phone." I literally never talk to my friends on the phone.
I don't really enjoy talking on the phone.
Honestly, I don't even really enjoy messaging that much.
Like, it just happens... I like seeing people in person.
If I can't see people in person, then that friendship... it doesn't end, but it takes a very big backseat.
Like, I'm still friends with all of my friends from... well, maybe all of them.
My best... the good friends I had in Korea, I'm still friends with all of them.
I hadn't spoken to Ross for like three years, and then we had like an hour's phone call a couple weeks ago.
And I was going to go down and see him. I haven't yet.
But every time I go down to Melbourne, I message China, like, "Hey, I'm coming down to Melbourne. Want to catch up?"
So those friendships don't end, but they... they're not relationships I would turn to for support, basically.
They're not relationships I would like... often maintain...
Like, I maintain them to the extent that I don't let them just completely end, but that's about it.
Like, I'm not messaging them all the time.
If I can't see them in person, I just... just don't... kind of don't care enough to... like, I just... I don't like calling, talking on the phone to friends.
Just don't enjoy it.
If I haven't spoken to somebody for like a couple... like a year?
Uh... then, sure.
But outside of that... Jeremy, occasionally I'm like... because we... our chats are usually for a purpose and quite... you know, like, pretty quick.
Maybe a quick catch up, but I still see him in person, so we don't really need to.
If I haven't seen somebody for like a year, yeah, maybe I'll do a call.
I'll be like, "Hey, how you going? It's been a year since we've really talked. How... what's up? How's your life been? What's going on in your life?"
Outside of that, I do not talk to people. I do not talk... I just don't talk to my friends on the phone, and I have no desire to.
And honestly, I don't really... I don't text any of them other than Jeremy occasionally.
Mostly just because I can't... he doesn't really use... well, actually, no, I kind of just move between the two.
But really, like, I... other than... most of my messages to people are, "Hey, do you want to hang out?"
That's... that's it. And friends at a distance, and I'm very, like... occasionally, Jayden and I will... Jayden and I or Jordan and I or Nick and I or Johnna and I will be like, "Hey, how you going?"
If we haven't caught up for a bit or, like, just, like, a quick little thing, but mostly very little communication outside of in-person.
The vast majority of my communication is with people in person, and if I can't see them in person, then that friendship doesn't...
I can't say it fizzles out because that means it ends. It means... fizzling out means it kind of just... we stop talking to each other and it ends.
That's not what happens. But we do stop talking to each other, and it becomes, like, a secondary friendship, basically.
Like, it's not a... it's not a close friendship anymore. It's not really... it's not an intimate friendship.
It's not a friendship I would turn to somebody for advice or support or, you know, I don't be like, "Hey, I'm feeling shit. Can I talk to you?"
I don't do that with those people. I mean, I don't really do that with any of my friends all that much, but... yeah.
So, we'll see how things go with Holly, but if we're treating it like we're just friendship, then... yeah, I just... I feel like when Holly says, "Let's just, you know, not have rules and just treat each other like we're friends,"
I don't think she really knows what that means for me. So, we'll see. We'll see what happens, I guess. But this does give me permission to, like, not take her calls or not text back.
Like, I don't have to feel bad about not, like... like, I don't have to feel like I need to reach out to her, because I don't... I mean, I still feel like that a little bit with my friends, but, like, you know, maybe I'll message her in, like, two or three weeks.
Like, that's what I do. So. And I'm... honestly, I'm pretty sure she's going to be the first one to message. Because it's usually how things go.
But hey, maybe when it's like we're being friends, she can separate that in her mind from chasing me. So. Who knows? We've never been friends before, so who knows what it'll look like? All I know is what all my other friendships look like.
But this is a new situation for me, so yes. We'll see how it goes. I suspect it will probably... it will probably go one of two ways. Either it turns into all my other friendships that are at a long distance where we talk every, like, year, and I catch up when I go down to... when I'm in the same place as them.
And with the occasional message outside of that, that kind of just falls off over time. Or I end the relationship because being friends with her is too painful because of the forced loss of... like, cutting off intimacy. It might be too painful for me.
And if I need to do that, then I need to do that. We've gotten to a point now where both of us recognise we can't make a relationship work, and we can't even make friends with benefits sexual... like, any kind of intimacy work. Any kind of physical intimacy, like, any of that stuff.
But at the same time we still want to be there for each other, so yeah. I don't know. Who knows what it'll look like. But basically I can take it off my... in some ways take it off my back. It has been on my... like, a little bit of a weight on my back. Or my chest. A little bit.
Which is... it's not nice to admit, but that's kind of how it feels sometimes. It's like I want, but at the same time it feels like I feel pressure to act in ways that I don't... would normally act. Basically.
You know, I communicate with her so much more than I can communicate with anybody else, and I feel internal pressure to do that. And I can let that go now. And I can allow myself to date other people. Etc, etc.
Again, probably not going to do that for several months. I'm not really feeling like it at all at the moment. But I think probably in like two or three months after I've probably like gotten done my jaw. Done my teeth done and all that kind of stuff. I'll probably want to start doing it again. Start dating again.
Oh my god, that is a cute dog. And yeah, I can do that. So yeah, things did not pan out the way I kind of thought they were going to. I thought we would maybe be like closer, more intimate friends. Kind of maintain the friends with more intimacy.
But honestly that's probably too hard to do and move on realistically. So friends it is. Whatever that ends up looking like. And if that means I can't be friends, so be it. That's what I need.
And I'm allowed to do that. And she now knows as well that we both know. Whereas previously I think it was maybe I knew or I had a pretty good idea that that was the case and she either didn't know or was not admitting it.
But that's not entirely true either. Like in this period since we got like, after she contacted me again. Whether it was like I did deep down I really did know or and I was kind of just fooling myself. But I think it was probably, it could be that.
It's like how would I know? But I did feel like maybe look, maybe something else other than, maybe something in between friends and full on relationship could work. And for quite a bit there, it was like well actually maybe even a relationship could work at some point.
So yeah don't put it all on her. But I do feel like since we have broken up I have been much more like this is not going to work. And she was either ignoring that, knew it and forgot about it, couldn't accept it or just like didn't realise it.
I feel like she did for a bit and then like either changed her mind or like other things happened that made her think maybe it would work. But I felt like she wanted it, felt like it could and wanted it to work. Whereas I was like I want it to work but I don't think it will.
And now we both know that. We both have lived experience multiple times of it not working. And that was the point. That was the point of that. That was the point of like you know hey we tried again. We really did try. We gave it a try. We gave it a good try and it's super triggering for both of us.
It's just not a good idea. We can't make it work. We both know that now. And if she comes back again and is like oh actually maybe we could. Now I can let my like end. The thing is you know part of this was like you know I feel like part of it was like her, me giving in to her being like maybe we can make it work.
And I think there was a bit of that but I also think there was a bit of like well you know things have changed. It's been a bit of time. Some of the things she said made me think well actually yeah maybe it could work. We have both grown in a bunch of ways. We're communicating better etc etc.
But now we know. Now we both know that it will not work. We have tried twice now. And if she comes back and says ah actually no maybe we can't make it work. I'm going to have the feeling. I'm going to have that like twit like that tear in my chest where I'm like I wish it could.
And I don't want to say no to you and like wishful thinking like I'm going to have wishful thoughts and stuff. You're like oh maybe. But I need to stand up for myself here and be like no we know it's not going to work.
I can't I'm not going to I'm sorry.
So yeah.
Friendship it is whatever that means whatever that looks like.
And that is probably going to hurt in the next couple of weeks.
I'm going to have to like wean myself off of that drug again.
It will be.
This is the third time now and it will be probably even easier but it's still going to hurt and I need to allow myself to feel that.
That was always the danger of this that we opened ourselves back up to getting hurt again and that's what's happened.
I need to allow myself to feel that it's okay but yeah it's time to start moving on.
This is this is the end of that.
So it doesn't have to be the end of our of our of us knowing each other but it is the end of our relate our any kind of intimate relationship.
Well friends can still be intimate but anything more than friends anything other than friends.
That's the end of that.
And look again maybe many years in the future like five ten years from now if we're both single and we both done the work we need to do.
Perhaps we could try again.
Because the growth we both need to go through would probably take that long.
Parts of what for me it's the value difference like the value differences are actually a pretty big thing but values also drift over five ten years so maybe that will change.
That was a pretty big thing for me.
It wasn't for her but that was maybe just because she didn't I was never really upfront about how I felt or thought about things.
Maybe didn't really know what my values were all that much.
We didn't maybe have as many conflicts about values because I caught my brought my kept my discomfort inside and wasn't really like didn't talk that much about what I thought and what my values were.
Where she did a lot.
I kind of tried to keep the peace I guess.
Whereas actually forgot what I was about to say.
Yeah but some of the things like the things a bunch of the things that stopped us this time.
The value stuff was coming up for me a lot.
But some of the but the value stuff aside.
The value stuff aside pretty much everything else that was that stopping us that stops us that makes us incompatible are things that we will probably be dealing with for our whole lives but can change with work.
Holly can could potentially get to a point with work in five ten years of work with five ten years of work she could potentially get to a point where she can hold down a job.
Etc. Etc. You know she can be independent she can look after herself she can make much she can not be destitute.
She can maybe you know have a more of a support network that she can rely on all of those things are possible for her.
They will be difficult and will require a lot of work but all those things could change.
The things the thing that really like the thing that really ended this last for a was our mutual.
We're triggering each of us to look at our mutual wound triggering basically you know Holly's feelings of being valueless of her basing her worth self worth and her value on others and their thoughts.
You know basically driving her self worth from others and you know the fact that I didn't want to pay for my own flight down making her feel like triggering her feelings of value listeners.
And then that and that and you know me knowing that I'm struggling with her PTSD triggering my feelings that my shame about weakness and all that kind of stuff.
Those like mutually triggered wounds those are both things we can both work on again shitloads of time and effort and pain but those can you know we can we can both get past those things.
It will just take a long time so other than the values which might change or you know we might both become a more aware of what our values actually are etc etc they might change.
Other than the values which are maybe less likely to change.
You know like my values to Holly's I like I understand I completely understand and it's honestly it's fair I actually under it is fair Holly's feelings about men and her deep distrust her distrust for humans in general and her complete distrust and verging on hatred sometimes for men.
Is not something honestly it just doesn't work with like it might values it doesn't work with my values.
Honestly, and that's maybe unlikely to change but that aside everything else that makes almost everything else that makes us you know Holly was a Holly is clearly aware of a lot of the things that I was struggling with.
In our relationship from her end I think she's aware of and a bunch of most of them I think she wants to change you know she's aware that she chased me she was chasing me that she derives her sense of worth from me from the person she's with from other people.
And when she's you know when when when the relationship is more than friends, she chases the other person. And mostly because it sounds like a lot of that is because she did she she wants to feel worthwhile.
She is using the other person as a crutch to feel worthwhile and to do that she needs to like hear from them and connect with them and constantly and all that kind of stuff.
And the things I was on collect the big thing the really big thing I was uncomfortable with in our relationship.
She now she knows she I don't know like I can't really talk to her about it, but she admitted that she was doing that.
She said you're a giant distraction. And it's like, yeah, I know you were fucking it felt like you were obsessed with me. And I, I got wrapped up in our I do I also get wrapped up in our relationship in a different way, but you know it felt like you were fucking obsessed with me and I didn't want that.
I don't want to be somebody's world. I don't want to, you know, be your sense of self worth. I don't want to, you know, all those things I struggle with it so much and it triggered my sense of sense of shame.
But she's aware of that and I'm aware of the sense of shame. She's aware that she does that, that she bases her worth on other people and that's not something she wants to change and something she can change.
And, you know, I gave into it because I like in large part because of my desire to not hurt her and because of my shame and both of those and both, you know, desire not to hurt her and whatever the other feeling is that underlies that and my shame are means I don't stand up for boundaries for what I want for what I actually want, which meant I communicated with her in ways that I wasn't comfortable with.
That's something I can change. So most of the parts of our relationship that didn't work other than the values are parts that, other than maybe the values are parts that could change with a great deal of work, five to ten years of work.
So in several years time, if we're in a position to do so, we feel like it, we're both single, etc. I would potentially, like if we have both done some of the work we need to do, I would consider it, trying again.
But I wanted to have been with somebody else before that. I don't want Holly to be the only person I've ever been in a relationship with in my entire life.
I want to have sex with multiple other people and I want to have at least one other relationship in my life. Have had one other relationship before I die, basically.
Well, not before I die, just if Holly and I would ever get back together. Like I want to be in another, like a relationship with somebody else.
I know that. I need to stand up for that. I am not going to be in a relationship with Holly for the, like if she are, if she wants to try.
Look, we're very sexually attracted to each other so fucking, like if we see each other, not fucking is going to be difficult.
We both know it's probably a bad idea but we also enjoy it a lot.
Yeah, so that's where we're at. I want to be with other people. Holly kind of needs to be with, probably needs to and maybe wants to be with women.
We both need, we're both still caught up in this relationship but we both need to move on. We both know it won't work.
The sex, like our sexual relationship won't work although we may still end up fucking again at some point if we meet, if we see each other.
So, but we also care about each other and want to maintain, want to be there for each other when we can.
Don't want to end the friendship, like the relationship entirely so we'll move to friendship.
Which I think for me the only way to maintain that is friendship from a distance with letters.
The thing I guess, last thing is like I do, when we're communicating like that I do want to communicate but it's like, but I'm also uncomfortable at the same time.
It's like do I actually want this? It's, do I actually want this or am I just fooling myself into thinking I am so that I can make Holly comfortable?
Or is it actually I do want this, if I do actually want this but I'm uncomfortable with it and that's something I need to work out how to,
that's kind of the disorganise, like I want it but I don't want it.
Like I'm pulling away but I also do actually want it.
It's like do I actually want that or am I just fooling myself into justifying it so that I can maintain that relationship with Holly so I don't make it,
so I don't trigger my own shame, so I don't make Holly feel like it, so I'm not feeling like I'm making Holly feel bad.
Is that why I end up wanting to talk to her?
Even though I'm feeling uncomfortable, like I was feeling uncomfortable with the way we were communicating.
Yeah, is it?
I actually do want that but I'm also uncomfortable and I haven't really worked out how to do those things,
partly because of the vulnerability stuff and all that kind of stuff, or is it I'm fooling myself to avoid triggering my own shame and to maintain the relationship?
Yeah, that's probably something to work out but regardless, in a lot of my interaction with, I was uncomfortable for those last couple of weeks.
I was also really enjoying it, I'm glad we were doing it, I'm glad we did that,
but we were talking more than I was comfortable with and in ways that I wasn't comfortable with.
Now I felt that internal pressure to be like "Oh, this is too much for me."
I felt that despite still reaching out to her.
But I did feel, still felt like I was being chased, like she would message me and I felt like I had to respond.
But I still would still, you know, at night be like "Oh, I kind of want to message her and be like "Oh, how you going?"" That kind of thing.
So yeah, difficult.
I absolutely know for my next relationship I don't want to be chased and I want somebody who has their own life.
I don't want to be chased, I don't want to be somebody's world.
I want somebody who has their own life and their own passions, separate from me.
And I want to support them to do that.
And I want somebody who can actually do those things.
Who actually enacts those things, cares about those things and enacts them, not just, you know,
somebody who has friends and wants to do things in their life and can actually do those things.
Like does actually, like Holly wants to but she doesn't.
It's not her fault, it's not her fault, it's the thing she struggles with, but that's really difficult for me.
So it feels like I end up becoming her world.
I need to carry the weight of her expectations and her needs and her lack of support
and her lack of friends and her lack of ability to do things she wants to do.
So I feel like she turns to me instead.
I don't want to be in that situation.
I don't want to be somebody's world.
I don't want to be chased.
I want somebody who has their own life.
[
