So, um, I... Holly and I just had a quite long conversation.
Um... Oh, fucking hell!
Oh, I'm feeling... Oh boy!
First of all, I just want to say well done both of us.
We both... We are getting so much better, both of us, at recognizing things and realizing things and navigating things.
It's still fucking really scary and hard and painful, but...
Yeah.
Holly said I was feeling scared because, you know, she was taking on my emotions and helping me process them,
and I was feeling really, really triggered and scared because it was like I don't feel safe,
because I feel like you say that you're fine and you're taking on my emotions,
but actually you're going to hang up and actually... and immediately fall apart,
and you're actually just not telling me about how you're feeling.
Because that's something you did a lot.
You would, like, shove aside your emotions and help me deal with mine,
and then go have your emotions later and fall apart and resent me for it.
And that made me feel... That means anytime you're helping me with my emotions,
you're not taking my emotions on, I feel really fucking unsafe.
And she said, you know, we talked through that, and she said, "I feel unsafe about you helping me through this
and taking on my emotions because I feel like you're going to hang up and immediately fall apart."
And she said, "I'm not, but is that something I used to do? Is that something I've done or I did?"
I said, "Yes, that's what I used to do in our relationship."
And she said, "It's OK to say that... to understand and admit that that means
you don't trust me in this instance."
You don't trust what I'm saying, basically.
And it's like, "And that's OK."
And she's saying, "I have the same thing for you because you lied to me."
And she said that, and I just had this spike of anger, fear, pain, and like a defensive...
I didn't say anything, but I had this immediate, like, recoiling feeling inside me,
like an immediate anger, defensive anger, an immediate desire to say, "No, I didn't,"
or not say, "No, I didn't," but like defend myself.
And I felt really, I felt hurt and I felt a bunch of things.
And then I thought through it, and then just before I did this, I thought through it,
and I was like, "Yeah, I did."
Like, regularly. I would regularly say I wanted to do things for her,
and I didn't actually want to do them.
And that was me lying to her every time.
So, of course, she didn't trust.
She had probably the same experience.
When I do things for her, she probably feels like I don't actually want to.
She finds that very hard to trust.
And I thought about that, and what I was feeling...
I've just said, I felt ashamed. I didn't realize in the moment.
But just before this, I thought through it, and I was like, "Right."
So I felt defensive. So she said, she felt...
I basically brought up, "Oh, I feel quite upset, I feel pretty upset and hurt,"
that she said that I lied to her.
And then I kind of sat with that for a little bit.
It was like, "That's shame, because actually I did."
I 100% did lie to her, and that had this negative effect on her,
and I feel ashamed, really fucking ashamed of that.
And that brings up anger and hurt and pain in me that I directed her.
I immediately, reflexively directed at her.
And that's really fucking... I'm really proud of myself for that.
That's really powerful.
But anyway, there's a bunch of really important things here.
I'm losing them as I'm talking, but that was really triggering.
Basically, Holly was saying, that whole conversation was Holly saying,
"Look, I can't pay for you. I'm worried that you're not going to want to engage anymore with me,
because I'm sick and poor."
And that was the thing that happened in our relationship.
I felt like when I was sick and poor, you didn't want to engage with me as much,
and I was very disappointed in the way that you interacted with me when those things were happening.
And she was basically saying, "Look, I still want to see you, but I'm not going to be able to pay for you to come down.
If we're going to do this, you can have free accommodation to come and stay with me,
and I'll have sexual favors and all these things, but you have to get yourself down, basically."
And basically, it was like, "That makes me feel unsafe, because that's going against the agreement we made,
and that's triggering and bringing up all of these things for me,
the exact things I was having problems with in our relationship."
And that happening for me, me not wanting to do that, was making her feel unsafe,
because she was like, "Now you're not going to want to see me and come down and see me,
because I'm sick and unwell and poor."
So it was like, no matter what happened, either one of us or both of us are going to feel unsafe, basically.
And then that had the additional layer, and this is the really important bit,
that had the additional layer of, "Now my needs are making Holly feel unsafe.
The fact that I don't feel safe coming down to see Holly unless we're paying halves makes Holly sad,
and triggers stuff for her about feeling poor, about her disabilities and stuff, and brings up stuff from our past relationship."
And that was incredibly triggering for me, and just instantly basically sent me into a fucking spiral,
where I was bawling my eyes out on the phone.
And that brings up where I feel like my needs are fucking bad, really bad, and I feel like a piece of shit.
I feel like a complete piece of shit because I can't...
I feel like a complete piece of shit because my needs are that I don't want to do things with Holly,
like go down unless we're both paying for it.
She was saying it felt like in our relationship that unless somebody is able to go to halves with you,
you don't feel safe. And that made me really upset basically.
And that is like the core trigger point for me in our relationship.
And I think it means for me, I can't do a relationship, like I can't have the kind of...
I can probably kind of do what we're doing, I can't do anything more than that.
I cannot have the kind of like the serious committed long-term relationship we had.
I would love to continue to know Holly, I'd love to remain friends.
And I am really enjoying this sexual connection and I'm really enjoying...
It's difficult but I'm enjoying the emotional stuff that comes with it.
And I feel like I'm actually growing a lot and learning a lot from navigating this stuff.
But I can't have the... I can't do our serious, our long-term relationship again.
Because I'm so full, like I have so much work to do to understand all of that stuff.
And Holly's problems are a direct trigger for them for me.
And my problems are then a direct trigger for it.
Like that core issue is incredibly triggering for both of us.
It's like our core wounds. We constantly trigger both of our core wounds.
And I can't do that basically.
This has shown me that. I cannot do that.
Maybe in many years, like a few years time, when I've done a fuckload of work
and I've understood all of this stuff and I've got the tools to like when that stuff comes up
I can actually effectively deal with it.
I am just now at the beginning of starting to be able to do that stuff.
I cannot do a long-term relationship with Holly.
No matter how much I love her, no matter how much I'm attracted to her.
That doesn't mean I don't want to be around her or know her.
Like I care about her a lot. I want to be able to support her in the ways that I can.
But I cannot be in a long-term relationship.
I can't do what we did. Not even what we did before but looking a bit different
like us fucking other people and not living together.
I can't do that. I cannot do a serious long-term relationship.
I can do what we're doing. I can't do what we did before.
Or even what we did but like the same seriousness, same level of commitment
and seriousness of what we had before. I can't do it.
And that is a decision.
And I'm going to call her on Saturday night.
Basically she said take 48 hours, process how you're feeling, call me on Saturday.
We'll have a conversation on Saturday. After you've processed this stuff,
I've processed some stuff and tell me whether you want to come down.
Whether you want to come down.
Pay for yourself to come down.
And if you decide you are going to pay for yourself to come down
and you get down you're unhappy and you're resentful,
I'm not going to take any of it on is what she said.
And I know all of that and everything I've just said means I cannot go down.
It will be incredibly triggering for me.
And I know that's probably going to be a bit triggering for her and that's scary
but we actually navigated that just really quite well.
But yeah, I can't do it. Cannot do those things.
[Sigh]
