listening to episode 196 at the moment. Fuck's sake. Right, we're listening to episode 196
of Philosophize This at the moment. It's the first episode on, it's the latest episode
right now, but it's the first episode on Slavoj Zizek, and he's going through some of Slavoj,
going through some of Zizek's foundational ideas and who he draws on. Right now he's
talking about, so apparently Zizek draws on his biggest influences, he's got a really
wide base of influence, he's got a lot of knowledge, but his biggest influences are
Hegel of Marx and Lacan. And at the moment he's talking about how, he's talking about
the idea, Lacan's idea of the symbolic order, which is how we, and how that connects to
Zizek's thoughts on ideology, basically. Which is making me quite interested in listening
to, in looking at Zizek a bit. Because he's basically, he's like, I think he's commenting
on, so Stephen West was saying, what is the experience like of being a person in the world
who is trying to change the world, like make the world a different, a better place? And
what is it like to take political action, to try and change things, etc. etc. And he
said, you ask somebody and they might say, well I'm a truth seeker and everybody else
is an ideologue basically. And Zizek would disagree and say, everybody's always operating
within ideologies. And in fact, not even one, usually people are almost always operating
within multiple ideologies stacked on top of each other. You're always doing that,
you're always operating through that lens and it's about, you need to learn, the important
thing is to learn what your ideologies are and learn how to, when and when not to use
them I guess. And you know, how to, to allow yourself to be more self, be more self-reflexive
and allow yourself to be more self-determining I guess. Which I think is a lot, connects
quite a lot to what David Chapman talks about with applying meta-rationality to ideology.
Well, it's actually not really meta-rationality, he's talking about meaning, it says meaning
in this blog. So I mean, it's partly what meta-rationality is. It's basically like,
rather than an ideology, you having it, rather than an ideology having you, you see the ways
in which, yeah, that rather than us having an ideology, ideologies have us and we should
see the way that that is happening and again, see them like a tool set, see them as a way
to see the world and with a certain set of truths that are useful in certain contexts
basically. I think it connects to some really interesting ideas about truth which are like
could be pushed back against as like relativistic but I think it's an interesting development
of not necessarily relative, like somewhat relativistic but not entirely, like it's not
saying the idea that all these ideologies and ways of seeing are different tool sets
to use in different contexts because every way of seeing the world is always going to
reveal some things about quote unquote the truth and hide others. Like I'd guess says,
every revealing is a hiding as well, every revealing is also an unrevealing. We're shining
the spotlight on one set of things which means we're necessarily, because of the infinite
nature of the universe and the finite nature of us, any interaction we have with reality,
with the truth is always going to be finite which means it's always going to be shining
the spotlight on one set of things and moving the spotlight away and hiding other things
which is why this is an important tool set. We need to understand which tool sets we are
using to come at reality and where their blind spots are basically. So we can get closer
to what reality is because we are always, like Zizic says, we are always using one of
those ideologies basically and I think that's a really insightful, that's a really interesting,
it really makes me want to read Zizic and a bit Lacan because then Lacan talks about
the symbolic order and how we basically, from children as babies, we can't, it is not possible
for human beings to take on the complexity of the world so we mediate it through these
symbolic orders that we, that are built, have built up around us that we kind of take into
us so that we can somewhat simplify and understand the world. It's really interesting. So he
says to Zizic there is, will always be a gap, hold on I'm just going to fucking, if I was
going to fucking, to Zizic there will always be a gap between what symbols can explain
about reality and the real. Always keep a gap between our constant search for truth
and objective truth. There will always be a gap between the universal meaning to life
and the limited meaning we can find in our lives in periods basically. And this makes
me really want to read Zizic because all this is aligning a lot with my views around finitude
and tool sets, mental tool sets I guess, viewpoints, viewpoints I think is probably the better view
sets, something like that. And how we, we're not divorced from the truth, we don't, we
don't, but we don't have absolute access to it. We don't have complete access to it and
we never will. But we also aren't completely divorced from it and completely out of touch.
We are always in a process where we are all, and you know this connects to John Feke, we
are always in a process of getting closer and closer to reality because reality is leveled.
It's a leveled ontology. We're always getting, we are constantly moving through levels of
reality. More and more real, more and more true. We are constantly, you know, to be human
is to be a part of a process of moving towards, closer towards reality. But we will never
be able, but it's an ideal. It's not something we can ever actually reach. We can get closer
and closer but there will always be a deeper level of reality than what we can get to.
And we may as a species be in the process of taking part in that, like, you know, moving
closer and closer towards reality. But in some, but there will always be more, basically.
And I don't think we will ever be able to, because of our nature and the nature of the
reality, we will never be able to get to a point of actually 100% being in touch with
reality. And I think also, I feel like something in some ways as we maybe, well, I don't know,
I feel like, I think part of the idea, John Vivecki's idea, maybe David Chapman's, is
that each level is inclusive of the previous levels. That's why it's self-transcendent
because it includes and transcends the previous levels. But that's kind of at odds with the
idea that, you know, revealing, that a revealing is always also an unrevealing hiding. And
in revealing one thing, you're always hiding others. As you get closer to reality, are
you also hiding other things? I'm not quite sure. But yeah, basically I think that's what
we are doing, that's what we are engaged in the process of truth-seeking. We are still
truth-seeking. We are seeking the truth. But we can never reach it. We can never reach
absolute truth, basically. God, I missed this. It just feels so much,
it's hard, it's difficult, but it just feels so much more satisfying and worthwhile and
invigorating and exciting than spending all my time obsessing about 40k or other things,
other bullshit I do. I just, I don't know, I get into these weird states where I have
to do all, go all in on one and I can't, I have to be, I need, there needs to be a way
for me to be able to do more than one at once and just not hyper-focus on either of them.
You know, do both philosophy and 40k at the same time. It's like, I get hyper-focused
on one and then get exhausted with it and then move on to something else, and drop it
and move on to something else. I need to be able to do both at the same time. Like, yeah,
maybe mostly do 40k but maybe one day a week spend some time doing philosophy and listening
philosophy and reading, but then I get the thing of like, when I'm doing a thing, I just,
I just want to keep doing that thing until I get to the point where I don't want to do
that anymore because I'm like overwhelmed. Like, I get, like, my brain is constantly
screaming at me to be like, do the thing, do the thing, you want to do the thing, fuck
everything else, just do that thing. And then I do that for like a couple weeks and like,
oh god, it's too much of the thing. I can't do it, take it anymore. And then I drop the
thing entirely and go do the thing, do the thing become something else. I need to find
a way to not do that anymore. And the thing is, I should probably not be doing this at
the end of a philosophy thing, I should be doing this in a folder IE journal, but anyway,
it affects my life a lot. It plays into what happens with, in relationships, where I like
get hyper obsessed in something and it's like the only fucking thing I want to do. And my
brain is screaming at me, I get this like physical reaction of distress when I can't
do the thing, I will do the thing because of other people or just anything, like anything,
anything stopping me from doing it. But it also impacts my ability to do the things I
care about, to do the things I want to do. You know, like, it impacts my, like, this philosophy
stuff is, it is the thing I care about really deeply. But this hyper obsession, this way
that I do things impacts my ability, like deeply impacts my ability to do that because
I get exhausted, because I get hyper, rather than having balance with it, I hyper focus
on it for a bit, it consumes me and then it becomes too much and I stop doing it. It's
never sustainable. And then I hyper focus on something else. It's just never, and I
spend all my time thinking about the thing that I'm into. It's not sustainable because
it always happens with me with 40k at the moment, like, spending, pouring more and more
of my time into 40k. And I'm like, oh, I don't, and knowing that I end up dropping, that I
can only be, I'm like making decisions based on this way of doing things, like knowing
that I can only be into one thing at a time, or conceptualising it as I can only be into
one thing at a time and I really want to get this thing done. So therefore, any time I
feel like even if it becomes self-reinforcing, it's like even when I do have a desire to,
yeah, it's like, oh, when I do, I'm into 40k at the moment, but I kind of feel like listening
to philosophy at the moment. I will explicitly not do that because I'm worried that it will
like disrupt my ability to finish the 40k. I really want to get this stuff 3D printed
and I'm worried that if I get into philosophy, I'll stop caring about the 3D printing and
not do it anymore and I won't do it and I won't get done. And it's the same thing with philosophy
like the other way around when I'm like, oh, I really want to start writing this blog stuff.
If something else comes up, like, oh, I kind of want to look at this 40k thing, that's
like, my brain pushes it down, I'm not allowed to do that because then I'll stop doing the
thing I care about and I'll start doing that instead. It really impacts me, it's like,
it's really holding me back. It's really impacting my ability to do things I care about.
A lot. I actually think it might be part of why I... I think it's one of the deepest things
I struggle with actually. I think it might be part of why I don't live up to my own expectations.
I already have all these great expectations of myself and I can never make anything. I
feel constantly disappointed with myself because I feel like I can't make things happen and
I think this is a big part of why I struggle to make things happen because I don't have
sustainability and balance. I get hyper obsessed, experiment out, drop things, move on, come
back. It's not a good pattern.
