the genuinely really philosophical thing that I could write an article about. So Holly and
I were having a discussion this afternoon, not really a discussion, Holly was talking
to me about, basically she was saying Israel is, it was in the context of something else
but she was making the argument that Israel is committing genocide and it's not really
arguable that it could be anything else. And I don't really know enough to say one way
or the other but my feeling is that it probably isn't genocide and it is important not to
not say it's genocide if it isn't genocide. And here's the reason. So first of all it
is important to say, to work out, is it actually genocide? To do that we need to understand
like what do we mean when we say genocide? Because some things count as genocide and
some things don't, right? So what makes something genocide? Is it the amount of people you kill?
Is it the intention behind the thing? I think the definition of genocide is something like
killing a group, killing a bunch of people, probably killing a group of people, maybe
there's some number there, like a large enough number of people, with the intent, with the
express intent of wiping out that group of people. And now I don't know whether it's
wiping out that group of people completely or wiping out that group of people within
an area. And that's important within this. And so, you know, is that the allies fighting
in World War Two, they killed a shitload of Germans and Italians, they killed a lot
of fucking people. And if it's based on number, that's genocide. But they arguably would,
they would, I mean some of them, some people maybe were, and that's like another thing,
you know, how many people have to be trying to do it for that, you know, I feel like genocide
is kind of a thing that is committed by a state or like a group. How many people in
that group have to want that to be the case for it to count as genocide? How much of a
people, you know, like if the President and nobody else, like yeah, that kind of stuff.
But yeah, so the allies in World War Two killed tens, hundreds of thousands of people. That's
enough for it to potentially have been genocide. But they were arguably probably doing it in
self-defence. And I don't think most people would say that's genocide. Some of that might
be biased because it's us saying it and it's our group of people that did it, so we don't
want to admit to genocide. But I think a lot of people would probably say that wasn't genocide,
we were defending ourselves. We were the defenders, we weren't the attackers, although we didn't
initiate that conflict and that's important. And that's important because Hamas initiated
that conflict. Then it's like, well, you know, Israel, Hamas started it but Israel's still
going and, you know, same thing in World War Two. Hamas started it, we ended it, like the
Americans ended it. That was probably, was that genocide? Was Americans dropping the bomb
on Nagasaki, was that genocide? So yeah, all of that kind of stuff. There was another factor
in there I can't remember. But the important point is, I think it is important that we
note that we don't just say it is genocide unless, one, we really mean it's genocide,
and two, whether we should try better to know whether it actually is genocide before saying
that and it's not just semantics. You know, you're just quibbling on words because saying
something is genocide carries a different moral weight to it. Because if it didn't, we would
judge the Allies in World War Two the same amount that we judge the Nazis and we clearly
don't because Nazis are our, like, byword for pure fucking evil. So therefore, saying
somebody is committing genocide is, like, essentially tiring them with a very large moral brush,
like a very damning moral brush. That comes with a whole bunch of, you know, things. The
Nazis committed genocide and now they are our byword for pure evil. They have been,
and you know, now people, like, people still to this day think about Germans in a particular
way because of that. So it comes with consequences, real world consequences. It's important. So
saying they are committing genocide, we should, one, actually think they're committing genocide,
not just be saying it for the sake of saying it for sensationalism and, you know, to air
pop things, which I think some people do. We make things as extreme as possible, but
also, if we do actually think they're committing genocide, we should actually try, like, it's
important to work out whether they actually are committing genocide and not say they are
if they actually aren't. And working out whether they actually aren't, are or aren't, is very
difficult to do. It's a vague, amorphous thing. But just tiring people with this side is committing
genocide and the other isn't is just, I don't agree with. I just don't agree with Holly.
And I don't know enough to really be able to argue with her about it and I'm probably
not really going to look into it anymore. But just saying that Israel is committing
genocide, I don't agree with. Hamas initiated that conflict. Look, maybe if Hamas attacked
once and that was it, they were absolutely never going to attack again. Then, yeah, this
is probably genocide. But, like, it's so much more difficult than that. And the idea that
it's completely what Israel is doing is completely indefensible. Why? Because they're attacking
civilians? Yes, some of the shit they're doing is pretty fucking awful. But having said that,
it's important not to go into what aboutism. Like, yes, other people, we have done that
before. That doesn't mean that what we did was okay. We should judge it on its own merits.
But Hamas initiated that conflict. It's the same as World War II. That's edging into what
aboutism. But that's going into the same difficult moral questions about dropping the bomb in
World War II. They killed a shitload of... And that was probably not a good thing. But
it fucking ended the war. And maybe that's what Israel is trying to do here. They shouldn't
be... They certainly shouldn't be fucking commended for it, for what they're doing. But it's also
not, they're the bad guys and Gaza and the Palestinians are just the innocent victims
and Israel is committing genocide. No, I don't agree with that. It is certainly, at the very
least, much more fucking complicated than that. And it actually annoys the fuck out of me
when Holly says things like that. And I really want to fucking disagree with her, but I don't
feel capable of. Because one, I don't think she'll agree, she'll listen to me because
I haven't read the requisite amount of things. But honestly, I think even if I did read the
requisite amount of things, I'm not sure if she would listen to me. But also, I also just
kind of can't be asked. If I go down this round of this philosophical question, yeah,
I agree. But news-wise, just to know about it, no, I don't. I don't care. It's not that
I don't care. I mean, in some ways, yeah, I don't care. But it's... I don't want to
get wrapped up in world news, basically, before it feels difficult to ever have these kind
of discussions with Holly. And it's difficult because it's like general, generalities and
specifics. I have this talk, like I can think about things in ways that allow me to say
stuff like this. But there are... And sometimes I'm not sure Holly does. I don't know. She
kind of doesn't... She has said things that make me think she does. But it's like I don't
think it's fair and I don't want my viewpoint to be dismissed entirely because I haven't
read the requisite number of news articles. Because I have a sophisticated enough way
of thinking about things that I think it should be at least listened to. And it makes me angry
when that is dismissed. However, it is still important to know details. And I don't really
know many details at all. And Holly knows a lot more details than I do. So it's a difficult
thing. It's like I have to push myself to look at things I don't really want to look
at to have this discussion with Holly, basically.
A whole other fucking journal I probably could and should have... I could have done and probably
should have done about the actual emotional outcomes of our discussion. That's very little
about what our discussion was actually about. It was more about... That was just like a
tiny little thing at the end. We talked for two hours and it was mostly about our relationship
and the problems and how we probably have to stop doing... We're going to have to stop
doing the sexy stuff and move to being friends and we may have to have more distance and
that sort of stuff. That's actually the important stuff. And I don't want this journal... I was
annoyed with Holly in that conversation and I've been expressing that and making it explicit
for myself. But that was a really good conversation. It was very difficult and very painful and
I wanted to dope out of it a few times. And it may be a question whether it was worth knowing
each other but that was an in the moment reaction and it was actually a very positive... Overall
a positive thing because we got to a point of mutual understanding and it actually strengthened...
It gave me... It was more and more evident. I'm getting more and more evidence and it
was good evidence that we can have... That I can have difficult conversations with people
that have... That make me really uncomfortable and all that kind of stuff and people get
angry and disagree and still come to a good conclusion. Like we were both really quite...
Not happy but like relieved and good. We got to a good point at the end of the discussion
of mutual understanding. So yeah.
[Clicking]
