Um, so, I'm, um, just trying to get some thoughts down about stuff to do with Holly.
I'm at a bit of a loss as to what to do, I guess.
Um...
Jesus Christ.
I feel stuck because, you know, like...
There's a big part of me that really just wants to jump on a plane and go to the UK.
There's another part of me that wants to just, like, irrespective of what's happening with her and I,
just go down to, like, do the thing of going down to Melbourne for a month or two,
like, even if it's got nothing to do with us, just to go try it out and see what it's like living in Melbourne.
Um...
Yeah, so, I don't know, um...
There's a big part of me that feels like maybe Holly and I could work at some point, but not right now,
and part of that is just because for no other reason, even if, you know, there's a bunch of reasons,
if for no other reason, then I need to go to the UK and I think I need to do that myself, on my own,
and I... like, I can't see how it would work, Holly coming with me.
Like, I can't see any way to make that work.
Um, the only way to make that work would be to be married or, like, for her to get a partner visa,
which means we'd have to be in a relationship and living together for two years or be married,
and it's a ridiculous idea to get married, like, given the state of where we're at,
the idea of getting married just to get over there is ridiculous.
She couldn't do it, like, there's no way she would be able to do it at all.
She's struggling to get work here, let alone over in the UK, where she doesn't have any of her support systems.
Um...
So that's, you know, her coming to the UK is not gonna work.
That's... we need to be realistic about that. That isn't gonna happen.
I need to go.
And it's like, maybe, you know, I'm planning on just going over there for six months just to see what it's like,
but maybe we could try again when I get back, we could, like, try the dating thing when I get back, or, like, I don't know.
Part of me is like, I... you know, I don't want to say... I'm not saying... I don't want to say no forever.
I want to say no to ever trying again, but right now, where I am at this point in my life, I can't do it.
Like, I don't really want to be in a long-term relationship right now.
I want to be able to just jump on a plane and go over to the UK, if that's what I want to do.
Um...
So, and, you know, the therapy I need, all those sorts of things.
Where I'm at right now in my life, I can't see it... I just don't see it working, but also I'm not sure it's something I want right now.
But at the same time, I also desperately love her, and the thought of saying goodbye fucking hurts.
Um...
And I just... there is a part of me that... pretty decent part of me that does want to try... kind of... even despite that,
and even despite the fact that, you know, I'm pretty fucking sure that I don't want her to be the only person I've ever been with.
I want to... you know, if we ever do get back together, I kind of want to have been with somebody else as well.
Um...
But...
Despite that, there's still a part of me that wants to see if this going down to Melbourne and trying again thing would actually...
or even just trying dating again thing would work.
And it's really hard.
Um...
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't want to be in Brisbane for too much longer.
And I'm getting to the point where the idea of just popping down to Melbourne for a couple of months just to see what happens,
what it's like, just to... as much, you know, even if it's got nothing to do with like...
Yeah, maybe try the thing with Holly, but even if it's got nothing to do with that, also on top of like separate to that, also see if I can...
if being in Melbourne is enough to cure my need to be elsewhere.
Like, is it elsewhere enough or do I just need to go to the fucking UK?
Because it's like a... it's a first step.
It's an easier step I can take that might solve some of my like "I need to get the fuck out of Brisbane."
Like, is it different enough from Brisbane that... and European enough that it hits that thing that I need?
But I don't... it feels like an impossible decision to make because I love her.
And the thought of saying goodbye is incredibly fucking painful.
And, you know...
despite wanting those things, I also... there's a part of me that wants us to be able to work.
Just doesn't want to let go, maybe.
Doesn't want to let go of the feelings we have and the good parts of our relationship and the sex is part of it.
Like, all of those things.
Letting go of that is hard. It's really fucking hard.
*sigh*
Yeah.
I'm getting more and more to the point where I'm like...
no fur right now, basically. No fur, you know, for the next year or two at least.
Basically. At the very least. And that I probably need to go to the UK.
But that's a big step and that's part of the attraction of this popping down to Melbourne for a bit because it's not a big step.
It really isn't actually that big of a deal.
Like, it's...
I need to sell a bunch of my shit anyway.
Because it's... you know, I know there's a timeline.
I know what time we're going to be for X amount of months because I need to come back and get my surgery done.
My tooth surgery done.
I've got the money for that. Like, that's all ready to go.
You know, I can probably sell this car, this Toyota.
Buy the car off Patty.
Sell this car. Get an extra $3,000 to put towards Bond and maybe a laptop or something.
Sell my computer.
And...
Be able to...
Travel. Go places.
Yeah, I don't know. Fuck. I don't know, man.
I think I am starting to really starting to get to the point.
I am reaching the end of my ability to be in Brisbane for much longer, though.
So no matter what happens, I don't think I could be here for more than another couple months.
And maybe going to Melbourne will resolve that a little bit.
Maybe even just going to Melbourne for a month or two might give me the boost.
It might give me a little bit of a "Oh, I'm away from things in Brisbane for a bit long enough."
And that when I come back to Brisbane to get my surgery and maybe save a bit more money again...
Then at least I'll have gone and I can maybe appreciate Brisbane a little bit more. I don't know.
I'm not sure.
And Mum made a really good point.
Like if I... It's only really only at...
Like if I stay somewhere overnight and just drive all day, it's really only a two-day drive down to Melbourne from here.
And realistically I could stop one or two places. I could maybe spend... Do it over three days and stop in two places.
Maybe stop in Sydney, spend a day in Sydney, drive down through Canberra.
Something like that. Maybe. I don't know.
I'm going to take it very slightly slower. Still not do it over a week, but maybe like three or four days instead.
And then I can explore stuff down in Melbourne.
Which means I don't have to fucking drive back.
I don't know. I'm going to talk to Holly about where I'm at.
It's hard because it's like... Am I just making it harder for her by talking to her about where I'm at?
That I am so up in the air?
Should I say those things or should I just not talk to her about it and then make a decision at some point until I've made a decision?
Maybe I should ask her that.
Like, "Hey, I'm thinking about a bunch of things, but there's still a lot of thinking going on and it's all uncertain.
Would you rather I talk to you about where I'm at and keep you updated or just not talk to you about it at all
and make a decision at some point when I'm able to and when I finally get...
Like, I'm trying to make it... Like, I'm going through the process of trying to make a decision.
It probably will take a while. It might take months or it might even take months.
It's like, "Do you want me to keep you updated or talk to you about what I'm thinking and where I'm at
or just not talk to you about those things and just make a decision at some point and let you know once I've made the decision?"
And if the former, I really want to talk to her, I kind of want to say...
Kind of what I'm thinking about is saying no for now because I really need to go to the UK,
but also I kind of want to come down to Melbourne regardless and I don't know what that means for us.
And there's very high likelihood I might go down to Melbourne.
Like, "Right, I like this, but it has not fixed the UK itch and I need to fucking up and go.
I need to get the fuck out of here and go to the UK."
Is that just...
Would you kind of try the open dating thing for a little bit
even with the knowledge that there's a pretty... Like, I'm better than 50% chance that I pick up sticks,
stop doing that with you, pick up sticks and just move to the UK by the end of the year.
I don't know, man.
I don't know.
You know, I'm kind of attracted to the idea of seeing what...
Even though I don't really think it's going to work, you know, I think we have all these problems that we probably can't resolve
and I don't want her to be the only person I've ever been with and I desperately want to move to the UK
and that's not going to happen with the both of us and I kind of want to be able to do it on my own
and just do it at a moment's notice.
All of those things, I also kind of want to see what dating each other is like in Melbourne
because it would be in some ways like maybe what we always needed
and maybe that would be like, you know, it could work, but it's not...
Like maybe that would be evidence that it could work, but it's not going to work right now because I need to go to the UK
and I just, I need to do that.
And I don't know how long...
I'm planning on going for six months to a year and you shouldn't...
I'm not asking you to wait for me at all.
Like I am saying you should start dating other people in that time.
You know, I'm not at all asking...
In fact, I'm saying the opposite.
That you should start exploring those things for yourself while I'm gone.
You know, don't hold on to us.
But maybe if I come down and we date and it works a bit, then maybe...
You know, like is there any point, maybe even literally just going into this being like we are going to date for six months
and then we will like going into it knowing we are probably...
That we are going to break up in six months, that we're going to stop doing it in six months
because I'm going to move to the UK.
Like that's my plan.
I'm going to come down and spend time and date you for six months and then break up and move to the UK.
Do you only want to do it if we are absolutely definitely...
Like if there's some chance that we will get back into a long-term relationship,
if we're going into it knowing that it's actually going to end in six months, do you not want to do that?
Like I kind of want to try that, but at the same time it's also not going to fucking hurt and make it harder for me to leave
and it's going to make the process of doing all of this again...
Like it's going to be basically like breaking up again.
Fuck.
I don't know.
We are even just trying it for two to three months.
You know, I come down there, we put a time on it of we're going to try and we're going to date for two to three months
and then I have to go back to Brisbane.
Like I am only coming down for two to three months, then I have to go back to Brisbane to get my teeth sorted.
And after that, I don't know.
I don't know what happens.
Maybe we stop dating.
I don't know, man.
I don't fucking know.
I don't know what to do.
I think I need to talk to her about all of this stuff.
I kind of want to...
When I'm down there, I kind of want to talk to her about and say like, look, I'm having all of these thoughts about various different things and various options.
Do you want to talk to me?
Do you want me to talk?
Like are you open to me talking to you about them or would you rather not hear about any of it and just I make a decision at some point
and then I tell you the decision I've made?
Like because I'm thinking about multiple options and it's all up in the air and it's more uncertainty.
I'm not making a decision.
I'm thinking about things and some of them feel kind of bad, to be honest.
You feel like there is a part of me that kind of wants to come down here, date you for six months with a six month expiry and then to see if that might work and then move to the UK.
I'd be like, I am going to the UK in six months and I want to go on my own and you coming with me isn't going to work.
So I'm just I'm going to the UK in six months time.
Would you date me for six months knowing that that's going to happen and we can see if that might work.
You know, maybe get some idea of if trying again at some point could work.
But it's like, well, at that point, why are we doing that if I'm if we know it might work, but then we're breaking up,
then we're going to be stuck thinking, well, maybe that could have worked.
And if we ever end up with other people, we're going to be stuck thinking, well, maybe that could have worked.
I don't know.
Fuck, I don't know.
Would you date me for six months if we're going into it with me saying, I'm going to break up with you,
I'm going to end this relationship, what we're doing in six months and move overseas on move over to the UK on my own?
Barring anything big changing, that's what I'm going to do.
Like, would you?
Because I need to do that.
I need to do that for myself.
And maybe that time shows us that it doesn't definitely doesn't work.
Maybe that time shows us it might work and we could potentially try again.
But I need to go to the UK and I don't know and I don't know how long I'm going to be gone for.
It could be forever. It probably won't be.
I'm aiming on six months to a year, but it could be forever.
It's like we're exposing ourselves to seeing that it could potentially work and then also,
but then not moving forward with that and then trying to see other people while knowing that our relationship could have worked.
I don't know, man.
Like, how open are you willing for this to be?
Are we just using each other at that point to keep ourselves, to stop being, to not be lonely and to all that for six months?
I fucking don't know.
If we are doing that, is there anything, is that a bad thing?
Should we not do that?
I'm just, I'm pretty sure I need to go to the UK.
Maybe things will change.
I don't want to go into this and string you along on the maybe I will end up staying.
Because the likelihood is I don't.
And I'm a little worried about your ability to, you might say and consciously think,
"Yeah, I'm down with that."
But unconsciously, you're actually just holding on to the maybe.
Because I'm worried that you, honestly, I think there's a pretty decent likelihood you would do that.
Given how things have gone with us.
And it's also going to make it really hard for me to, like even if I want to leave,
it's going to make it really hard for me to leave.
Because I love you and I will.
I don't know, man.
100% no, I am not going to just commit to getting back into a long-term relationship.
I'm not going to do that with us.
It has to be something that's provisional up near, like, our long-term relationship.
Our long-term relationship didn't work.
And a relationship, like a relationship might work, but we need to see.
I'm not just going to go to straight up be like, "Let's do a long-term relationship again."
That's the decision I'm 100% making.
It's a provisional relationship or nothing, basically.
A relationship or nothing.
Which is a lot of options.
It's just the option I'm not doing is a relationship like ours previously.
I don't know, man.
This is the thing.
I think I've been talking for like 10 minutes to myself without doing this,
so this might be a little bit out of context, but this is the thing.
I do not want to be in a long-term relationship right now.
That is it.
That's the ultimate thing.
I don't want to be in a long-term relationship right now because I want to be able to just get up and go and move to the UK at any time.
If I'm maybe dating somebody, maybe not at any time, but if I'm dating somebody,
it's not going to be a long-term commitment and I need them to know that I might up and go to the UK at any point.
I'm making that clear from the outset.
I'm worried that the person I'm with is going to say that that's okay and whatever,
but that's something that they need to know for themselves.
I can't do that for them.
I'm going into this saying, "I am moving to the UK."
I am not going to commit to a long-term relationship.
Anything I do is going to be a short-term thing or a looser, more casual, situation-shippy sort of thing
because I intend to move to the UK this year or next year, basically,
and I intend to do it on my own, and I intend to be able to just up and go, basically,
and I'm planning my life around that.
But I would still be open to a short-term thing or an open thing or a more casual thing or a situation-shippy thing.
And I want to be in a relationship with somebody else at some point in my life.
To be honest, I think it will probably take me several relationships before I find somebody that I'm with for the rest of my life.
I may not find anybody that I'm with for the rest of my life.
I may end up being poly.
I don't entirely know.
I'm so new to all of this that I still want to explore.
And when I move to the UK, I don't really want to do a long-term relationship.
I think when I move to the UK, I want that to be "That's it. I'm moving to the UK, and I'm ending this relationship."
And maybe we can try again at some point.
But I would still probably be open to...
Because while I'm here in Australia, I love being around you.
I love spending time with you.
I love having sex with you.
I love having an intimate connection with you.
And I think we could have a lot of fun in Melbourne, but it might not be more than just that.
And it's going to hurt.
When I leave, it is going to hurt both of us.
I don't think I want to do a long-term relationship.
It might potentially be doable between Brisbane and Melbourne.
It is not going to be doable.
I do not want to do a long-term relationship between the UK and Australia.
And I can't see a way that you are going to be able to come with me.
And honestly, I think I probably want to go on my own anyway.
Because I want to be able to fuck people over there, and I want to maybe find somebody else over there.
I think this is maybe where I'm at.
I think this might be my decision.
I don't want to do a long-term relationship right now.
I think we would be open to having a bit more casual, like our relationship like it was previously,
but a bit more casual and with a time limit.
And that's going to hurt us.
When we get to the end of that time limit, it's going to hurt both of us.
Something might change potentially, and I might change my mind,
but I would be going into this, like planning to not do that.
And you need to make a decision.
You need to decide whether you want to do this or not,
not based on the small chance that it might change, based on it not changing.
Because that's almost certainly what's going to happen.
And I completely understand if you don't want to do that.
But at the same time, because I kind of want to experience what it's like to be in Melbourne dating you.
Because one of the best parts of our relationship was at the beginning of our relationship,
and it might show us that there are parts of our relationship that could work,
and maybe it could work again in the future.
I want to be with somebody else at some point.
And I wouldn't be going into another relationship hoping it ends so I can be with you again,
but I honestly don't really think, like I think the likelihood of the next person I'm being with
being the person I end up spending the rest of my life with is probably not that high.
Honestly, I may not end up spending the rest of my life with anyone.
I don't know. Maybe I end up being poly.
I don't know. I might have not sure I already said this, but...
So it's like basically I'm at a point in my life where I don't want to commit.
That's the reality.
I'm at a point in my life where I don't want to commit to a serious long-term relationship.
And that's not probably going to change, but at the same time I also love you, Holly.
I love spending time with you. I love having sex with you.
I love our connection, and I love that we kind of want the same thing in a lot of ways.
I would be very open to doing that with you while you also explore dating women.
But I don't want...
At this point in my life, I don't want a serious committed long-term relationship,
and I want to be able to just up and go.
And that's not going to... I don't think that is almost certainly not going to change,
and that's actually a big part of my reticence, to be honest, and the fear of the pain.
But if we're going into this knowing it's going to end, and we're just enjoying the time we have together
and seeing how things go, and seeing if it maybe will work again in the future if we get the opportunity,
giving each other support and being there for each other and keeping each other company
and all of those things while we also explore other stuff, that's fine.
Explore things sexually, all of that stuff.
But I don't want to be, at this point in my life, our relationship, open my life up,
and I want to explore that. And that means not being in a committed, serious, long-term relationship right now.
With anyone. And I don't intend to do it with anyone right now.
I intend to... I maybe want to fuck around, I maybe want to have short-term, similar sorts of...
although not as... our relationship is still kind of... not as close relationships with other people,
but I don't intend to get back into our long-term relationship, basically.
And I think that's the decision I've made.
And I'm open to other things with us, but I am not open to our... to getting back into a long-term relationship.
Getting back into our long-term relationship.
If that's something that you're interested in, I'm open to that. I'm open to dating again.
But it would probably only be dating.
And we would have to probably still protect ourselves a little bit within that.
Because I am going. I am going to the UK in six months, etc.
And I have to be myself. And I have to try and be myself, and how I am maybe doesn't work for you.
How I actually am maybe doesn't work for you.
And I'm worried about you saying yes because you are desperately in love with me.
But actually you're just holding onto the chance, the small chance.
You're actually just holding onto it unconsciously.
You might even think that you're doing... that you're on board, but actually what you want.
Because you've said to me multiple times, you have done things like say to me,
"Yep, we know that this isn't going to work."
And that's what you were saying to me, and I don't know if you were just not telling the truth,
or you were consciously thinking that, but actually underneath everything it wasn't mutual.
And you actually just wanted to be in our relationship again.
And I'm worried that that's going to be the case.
That you're going to say yes to this because you're holding onto this.
And really what you're doing is just desperately holding onto the hope that our relationship starts up.
Our long-term relationship starts up again.
And I don't want that. I don't want to do that to you.
But the difficulty is I can't... I think that's a pretty good likelihood of that happening, to be honest.
And I can't... but I can't... I can't see into your brain, and I can't make that decision for you.
And I don't want to.
And I'm worried about your decision, your ability to make that decision for yourself.
I don't want to string you along.
I completely understand if that's not something you want, that's not something that doesn't work for you.
So, yeah, I don't know.
It's hard.
I think this is stuff I need to talk to Holly about.
When I'm down there, when I go see her.
In fact, not do I... I think I need to.
I am going to.
Everything I have said here, I am going to talk to her about this.
I have made a decision. I am not getting back into our long-term and serious relationship.
And I... if we did do something, I would be doing it intending to end it.
Basically going into it intending to end it within six months to a year when I move to the UK.
It's like, is that a waste of both of our time?
To me, no.
I would love to spend that time with you, to be honest.
And I honestly probably won't even date other people.
I would love to just spend six months with you in Melbourne knowing it's just going to be six months in Melbourne.
And we enjoy our time together.
I don't know.
Yep.
Well, I don't... sorry.
In some ways I do know this is what I am going to talk to her about.
I have made a decision. I am not going to be in a long-term relationship.
In our long-term relationship. I don't want that right now at this point in my life.
Maybe at some point in the future.
I am not saying no to a long-term relationship with us forever.
But that's not a...
Oh, like...
You know, if we try... if we date for six months, it might show us that it might work in the future.
But I am worried then that we'd both be holding on to... holding out for each other when...
we're with other people or doing other things in our life.
Like... yeah, I don't know.
I don't know.
But yes, that's the decision I am making. I am saying that to Holly.
What I am going to say to her... I am going to say, "Hey, I think I have made some decisions."
"Are you open to talking to...?"
"And it might be a bit emotional. Are you open to be talking to you about them?"
This is the decisions I've made.
I am open to maybe continuing some things with us.
But I have... the decision I have made...
You know, so don't take this as a hard no on everything.
I'm open to some things, other things with us. Other opportunities after potential things.
But I have made a decision.
And the decision I've made is I don't want to be in a long-term committed relationship right now.
Which means that anything I get into, I'm going into it intending for it to end.
I'm going into it intending not...
It's not like I'm going into it and then seeing what happens and maybe it turns into a long-term relationship.
I'm going into it intending for it to just be a short-term thing.
Because I intend to move to the UK in six months.
Within six months to a year.
And I think I intend to do that on my own.
And I want the capacity to just get up and go, basically.
I don't want to be tied down.
But at the same time I would also be willing to try us dating again.
But it would be like the dating I was intending on doing with anybody, which is basically a bit more casual in a situation.
But I would be willing to... I would do that.
With us.
I would come down to Melbourne and date you for six months.
But we would be going into it knowing it's going to end.
Basically.
And that's the decision I've made.
And I know that might not work for you at all and I completely understand that if that's the case.
But I'm not going to do our long-term relationship again.
Maybe at some point in the future.
Years from now, potentially.
I'm not holding out for that.
And you shouldn't hold out for that.
But I'm also...
Particularly if we try dating again and it kind of works.
Maybe I would be open...
If we're in a position, I would be open to that.
But you, I think, need to explore other parts of your life.
I need to explore other parts of my life.
But I still love being with you.
I still love spending time with you.
I still love our intimate connection.
I still love having sex with you.
I love our sexual connection.
I love all of those things.
And I think I in some ways would probably struggle to be friends with you because it would be hard.
I would constantly be reminded of all the difficulties.
If you just want to be friends, if that means...
If you don't want that and you just want to be friends, I will give that a crack.
I will try that because I care about you and I want to maintain our connection.
It might not work for me, but I will try.
I will 100% give it a try.
But I'm not going to do our long-term relationship again.
I think the other thing I'm going to say to her is that I have 100% made a decision,
but I am very, very strongly starting to lean towards coming down to Melbourne for somewhere between a month and three
and booking my tooth surgery for afterwards.
So come down probably in the next maybe two months, come down for a month.
Somewhere between the next one and two months, come down for...
So somewhere in the next one to two months, coming down for between one and three months.
And there's a timeline.
I'm only there for that time and I'm coming back up to get my surgery done.
And I'm like full on moving back up here.
And I'm kind of thinking about that regardless of what's happening with us.
So maybe talk about that first.
Maybe I'll open with that.
So I've made some decisions.
Made some decisions and/or am very close to making a couple of decisions.
Here they are.
I'm very, very...
I think I'm probably going to come down in the next month or two.
Very likely to do it.
But I also...
I would be open to exploring some other things with us, but I don't want to do a long term relationship again.
And we would be going into it knowing that it's going to like it with the intention for it to end basically.
Right, now that I've made these decisions I can talk to Holly about it.
She can make a decision about what she wants based on that.
And if she says, "No, I don't want to try it all. I'd rather just be friends and not see each other at all."
That might change my feelings about coming down to Melbourne.
And then I can get all of that out and then I can talk to her about me.
