So I just went down to see Holly over this last weekend, it's Tuesday. I'm first day
back at work. I took yesterday off work and went down to Melbourne for four days from
Friday to Monday. It was a good trip. Saw Shana, first time in like four years. I'm
mostly going down to see Holly but I did a couple things for myself as well. There's
two things to talk about as part of it. The first is Holly and I have come to a conclusion
and for me this is it. I get a feeling based on the things she was saying that this is
probably it for her too. We've arrived somewhere that works for her and she's not going to
change her mind and I'm not going to change my mind but I've thought that a few times
now. So maybe it'll change for her and she'll come back and say "Oh, maybe we can try this."
Nah. This is it. I'm done. The decision we came to is that we're going to like when we
are around each other, we're going to have like a casual thing. We'll have some emotional
intimacy and physical intimacy. We'll have sex when and if we feel like it but we're
not going to try. We're taking a monogamous serious long term relationship off the table.
We're both going to date other people. She wants to date women. I want to date women.
She maybe still wants to a little bit but I think she's basically said she's really
actually quite happy with where we're at. She actually doesn't really want to do our
long term relationship because it was, our monogamous long term relationship because
it was complicated. She's happy with something casual between us. So that's what we're going
to do and it's not like we're still going to, we got to a point before I came down where
we were talking in a pretty comfortable way, pausing it. I think it works for both of us.
We still love each other. We're still very fucking attracted to each other. So when we're
around each other we'll fuck if we want to. We'll support each other a bit and be nice
to each other and like really good friends I guess although it still doesn't really feel
like a friendship. It's like a casual relationship that's very intimate and very trusting and
close. Like friends with benefits but with more intimacy. And we'll still talk but we've
gotten to a point where we were talking in a way previously before I went down that was
actually quite comfortable. We were just talking to each other when we felt like it and neither
of us felt like we had to get back to each other immediately. I would text her and she'd
respond later that night or the next day. It's feeling much more comfortable. So I don't
feel like I need to just not be in contact. She does want to be able to text me and call
and stuff and she's going through a really rough time at the moment and I want to be
able to help her. She's asked, "Hey, can I give you a call at some point this week and
ask if you've got capacity and ask for some help?" I said absolutely. It just feels like
a really comfortable spot. I don't think it will last like this forever. Obviously we're
not going to have sex when we're at the second part of this basically. So that's a decision
made which is I think what both of us needed and I think it's taken our weight off both
of our shoulders because the pending box was getting a bit shit for both of us. We needed
some clarity and Holly has realized that she doesn't really have the capacity for... Her
life's completely up in the air. She doesn't have capacity for anything beyond this. She
wants to date women. This works for her. She's really happy with it. I feel the same. I'm
really relieved that we've made a decision and this is the decision made. For me, this
is the decision made. I'm not changing my mind. I'm not thinking any more further about
it. If she changes her mind, then that's something she has to deal with. I'm not going to change
mine and I'm going to stand up for that. Which then also makes it easier for me to make the
next decision which is I think... Ooh, four minutes, three minutes faster. Nice. I'm going
to pause it for a moment. That makes me really relieved and it also makes it easier to make
the next decision which also makes me relieved and takes some pressure off of me. What's
this saying? Makes it easier to make the next decision which also takes the weight off my
shoulders and fills me with relief to have a direction which is I think... I haven't
entirely made the decision. I still need to... It's dependent on some other things but I
also still need to just think about it. Fuck, I can't go this way. Fuck's sake, this is
a really complicated trip to work. Hold on, give me a moment. Yes, I think my path forward
for the next year or so is probably stay in Brisbane for the next month or two, maybe
three while I get a few things sorted, buy the new car, sell this car, get a bit more
3D printing done, do all the fucking health shit I've got lined up for the next month
or two, follow up probably a little bit more on the sleep specialist stuff, get all of
that done. Then probably move down to Melbourne for about two to three months, drive down,
get a short term lease and just go down there for a couple months and see how I feel, see
how I like it, see what I think. Just try it out basically because I'm at a point where
I'm like I need to get out of Brisbane. It's either the UK or Melbourne next and I don't
know which one I want to do so I'm just going to do both basically. So I'm going to go down
to Melbourne for about three months, try that out, just live down there, do a short term
lease, take some hobby stuff down. It's depended on being able to do talking to Zabian and
her saying yes I can work remotely but yeah just go down there, keep working four days
a week, take my bike down and just explore and have a good time down there for about
three months. Then come back up to Melbourne, to Brisbane, start selling, come back up for
my surgery, my two surgery, get that done. Then start selling shit and then come back
up, live with Mum and Dad again obviously, start selling shit. Start selling my shit off,
sell the car, well maybe not immediately but sell stuff, pack stuff up. That kind of thing,
one moment, come back up, sell my shit. Sell my shit. Just spend a little bit of time here
saving a bit of money up again, another couple of months and then move over to the UK. Probably
end of this year, start of next year, roughly the same time as Jono, Jono and Emily. Move
over to the UK for like six months to a year, try that out, see what I think of that and
then I mean after that I don't have another, the planes don't go further than that but
one moment, oops, started it too early. Yep, go over to the UK for six months to a year.
At that point that's where the planning stops but I think probably what will happen is I'll
go over there, really fucking love it but hate just doing whatever job so I'll probably
end up coming back here to Australia to finish my honours and then try and maybe move back
over and get into like a baby change or something to do with psychology and then from there
go into cognitive science. It's probably the long term plan but for the next year or so
it's stay here for a bit, save money, sort some health things, move down to Melbourne
for a bit, for a little bit, come back up, sell stuff, get ready to move, move over to
the UK for six months to a year, roughly the same time as Jono. That's the current plan
and like date here and there I guess.
