Okay, this is me trying to work out what the fuck to do about the situation with Holly.
So this is the situation as it stands.
This is the situation as it stands.
We had a big conversation yesterday after not talking for two weeks about
what we were going to do, I guess.
Fuck, I don't know if I have the energy for this.
I'm getting that massive weight in my chest that feels like I'm pulling something up out
of fucking depth every time I try to talk.
But I gotta do it.
I gotta work this out.
So, had a conversation with Holly yesterday after we were ducking.
We were just talking about where we were at.
Basically where we're at is Holly is...
Holly basically said, "When we talk about them, I see the issues.
That within a week, I can't focus on them anymore and all I can feel is the emotions
of wanting to be with you."
So she's a yes.
And despite all the problems, she can't seem to focus on them.
Probably, she's saying that she's constantly trying to convince me that she's worth the
time, that she's worth the energy, that she's worth trying one more time, etc.
And that she's getting tired.
She's running out of puff to do that.
She's getting tired of putting in that...
She's running out of puff to do that, particularly now with all the other things that are going
on in her life.
And that feels deeply unfair to me, to be honest, that framing of things.
But that's how she sees things.
So what am I supposed to do about it?
That actually makes me really angry, to be honest.
That's how she sees things.
That's how she's conceptualizing them.
And that feels really unfair.
But there's nothing I can really do about it.
And she was basically...
Basically, we were saying, "I have to make two decisions."
She gave me 24 hours to make a decision about whether I'm going to stay with her or stay
somewhere else.
And...
Oh, all the stuff.
I can't really find my...
Yeah, so there's two decisions.
I'm just going to try and spend 24 hours trying to decide whether to stay with her or whether
to...
Whether to stay with her or whether to stay somewhere else.
And...
Whether to stay with her or whether to stay somewhere else.
Which is the decision I had to make today.
And then we were going to have a call on Wednesday and decide whether to...
She wanted me to make a decision because she's a yes, regardless.
She wanted me to make a decision about...
She wanted me to make a decision about whether I am coming down as a friend and whether we're
going to not stay together and not have any other sexual stuff.
And...
Not have any other sexual stuff.
And...
Not have any other sexual stuff.
And...
Just see if we could just be friends without having...
We know each other.
We love each other.
We have sexual chemistry.
But can we be friends without those things, basically?
Which is basically a no on trying again in any capacity and just instead going straight
to can we actually even be friends?
Because we're both like, we're sick of the pending box and we need to make a decision.
But her decision is at the moment always going to be yes.
So it means if it's going to be a no, I have to be the one to make it a no.
If it's not going to be mutual, I have to make it a no.
And I...
I don't...
I'm struggling because I don't know if I'm just being a coward or weak, but I don't know
if I'm ready to... if it's not going to be mutual.
I think if it was mutual, I would be ready to say no.
If we were both ready to say no, I would be ready to say no, I think.
Although now we've talked about it, maybe not.
Maybe I do want to try a little bit more.
At the very least be down there so we can sort this out.
And... but I'm worried that I'm just kicking the can further down the road.
I'm worried that I'm doing it for other reasons as well because it gives me a way to get out
of my parents' place.
You know, the idea would basically be I would get a short-term lease down there like two
or three months... between one and three months.
Take my job, do my work remotely and just move down there.
Not take much.
Probably not drive.
Just chuck a couple of things in a bag, go down and stay somewhere that's already furnished
for three weeks, three months.
And see how it goes.
But yeah, fuck.
I'm worried that I'm doing it for reasons other than us being together.
I'm worried that I'm just pushing the decision further off.
There's a part of me that's pretty sure I don't want to try again right now.
There is a part of me that's pretty sure I want to be with somebody else before I'm with
Holly.
But I'm like, well, yes, that is the case.
But maybe I'm just fooling myself.
But maybe if we...
I go down and we kind of try again, then maybe that will change.
But it's also like we're opening ourselves up to some... you know, this hurts already.
I mean, we're opening ourselves up to so much more pain by doing that.
It's going to hurt a lot more doing that than it is doing this.
You know, it's also going to be harder to say no.
It's going to probably be even harder to say no.
Probably going to be even harder to say no because we'll be even more enmeshed.
But we will see whether it works.
We will definitively see.
I'll say I don't know if she ever will, but I will definitively see whether it works.
You know, if my feelings about maybe wanting to be with somebody else first or, you know,
in my life don't go away, then I know it's not going to work.
And I get to see what it's like to live in Melbourne.
I get a couple of months away from my parents' place and then I can come back and, you know,
there's a timeline.
And I know I have to be back at some point to go get my surgery done, etc, etc.
I just...
I just...
I don't...
She's not going to say no.
And she said that the last time that she said no, she didn't want to say no.
She was only saying no because...
Oh my god, that lizard's so cute.
She was only saying no because I wouldn't and I was in pain and she needed a decision
to be made.
She didn't want to say no.
She knew that she just made my decision for me and she thought my decision was going to
be a no.
She knew my decision was going to be a no.
So that's the decision she made even though it's not what she wanted, which is why she
didn't...
You know, why she regretted it constantly because it's not actually what she wanted.
You know, maybe if I say no to her, she'll be able to fucking move on with her life.
I don't know.
Maybe not.
But at that point, at least if I go down and try...
I feel like a little bit like I'm being kind of shanghaied into it, to be honest, because
she won't fucking see the problems.
But at the same time, maybe I'm...
I don't know, maybe I'm not sure if I'm convincing myself or...
You know, I do love her.
Maybe there is a part of me that wants it to work.
I think I'm going into it thinking it's probably not going to work and this is going to prove
that it's not going to work and I need that proof maybe.
But maybe that's not a good thing to do.
I just...
I think...
If I have to make...
If it's not going to be mutual and I have to be the one to make the decision that it's
a no, I don't think I'm ready to say no yet.
Or at the very least be down there for a month so we can sort this out because it's so much
harder to sort this out when we're not in the same state.
When we have to pay $400 total every time we want to see each other or we're going to
need to see each other.
You know, or...
I don't know, man.
I don't know what to do and I feel like I have to make the...
She is making me make the decision because she's not going to make a decision other than
yes.
She's just going to keep ignoring the fucking problems.
And she wanted me to make a decision before Wednesday so we can have a call once they
know.
Like, "Right, what are we doing?
Are we going to just try and be friends and see if we can actually make that...
You're coming down to see if we can actually make that work?"
I'm not ready to make that decision.
That's it.
If it was a mutual thing, I probably would be, but at this point maybe even not.
But the hard part is also, like, I can't come down for a month or two and it's also dependent
on my job.
Like if Zabi won't let me, I can't do it.
I cannot give up my job.
I can't take a month off and I can't give up my job for this because this is so uncertain.
That would be an absolutely stupid decision.
And that's probably going to make her feel worthless.
I can't do anything about that.
That's her problem to deal with, that it triggers her worth problems.
And honestly, I feel like I'm kind of being held hostage by her worth problems, to be
honest.
But the reality is I am not ready to make a no decision this week.
I just...
I can't do it.
For staying with her, I really don't know.
I want to stay with her, to be honest.
I want to stay with her and have sex with her.
I want all of those things we were talking about but I don't know if I feel safe to.
I feel like I'm locking her into things and given where we're at, I'm not sure I feel
safe with it.
And what if she changes her mind?
If I have somewhere else, I've got somewhere else I can stay and then we can still spend
a night together if that's what we want.
I think that's probably what I'm going to do.
It is.
That's what I'm going to do.
I didn't really want to spend the money but at this point it's peace of mind.
It doesn't stop me from staying at a place for a day or two.
And it means I don't have to bring down anything.
That's my decisions.
I am not ready to say no today or this week.
I can't make that kind of momentous decision.
Oh shit, that's fucking gorgeous.
I'm going to go check that out.
I'm ready to make that kind of decision in this kind of time.
I'm going to stay somewhere else.
And I'm going to call her right now and talk to her about those things.
