Episode 198 of Philosophize This. It's the third episode on Zizek. It's called The Truth
Is In The Process. And I've just started listening to it and it's already something really interesting
which is about how... Hold on, fuck, I'm just going to play what he says. Give me a moment.
I'm a new atheist. You're a creationist. These are our ideologies and now let's go to battle
with each other. Ideology is much broader than that. It's more subversive. It's not
only in the way you consciously think about the world. It's in what you don't think about
the world. It's in what you do. It's in the way information is distributed. It's in the
secret agreements that are made underneath your decisions for Zizek. The ideological
structures that make you feel like you see the world so simply and so clearly but it
gives you that feeling of clarity always by excluding other ways of framing that same
reality. That last bit is the most important. Ideology contributes to the... Actually, thinking
about it, that is exactly the lens windows into the world by analogy I was using. That
we all have a window onto the world that we look through but that window always excludes
things. It sharpens some things and looks at some stuff but it excludes other things
and that we need to learn to take on different... We should, rather than seeing them as absolute,
we should see our windows as tool sets that we take up. Each is better or worse at revealing
different things and we should take up the windows that work for each situation basically
because every ideology is always going to be excluding other things. I think the important
part of that is I can look to and lean on... I should read some Zizek and I can... I might
actually watch that like his movie about ideology but I can... I should read some Zizek and
I can use him as a source of argumentation for my idea basically, for my argument. What
he is saying is entirely supporting what I'm saying. At least Stephen West's interpretation
of what Zizek is saying. Yeah. So, do that basically. So apparently Zizek draws on Marx
a bit because Marx had things to say about ideology and the big thing Marx had to say
about ideology is that the dominant ideology of a society is determined by the ruling class.
This is so good. "How is the clarity of my worldview..." This is what he says. "Is there
more to it than that?" Just keep asking yourself that all the time. "How is the clarity of
my worldview made possible by excluding other worldviews?" How does ideology give a simple
set of answers to complex questions so that a person can live comfortably as a subject
of the world that they live in? This is so good. So he's gotten on to talking about Hegel's
dialectics or more dialectics which kind of didn't necessarily start with Hegel but it
was like heavily... Basically started with Hegel and then has... He's critiquing the idea
that he's like the synthesis, thesis, synthesis, synthesis thing. Hegel never actually said
that, etc., etc. He said that those are a simplification of what Hegel's actually saying.
There's a lot more to it and that dialectics is like a whole fucking field of study basically.
A whole branch of ideas. One of the most important parts of dialectics is that the world is constantly...
Things are constantly in motion. Things are constantly changing. So things are a process.
Love it. I need to read some Hegel and I need to read some music because he bases his work
on Hegel quite a lot. Listening to the end of the same episode. It's like a day later
now. That's fucking good. He's talking about dialectics still and how dialectics... Everything
also contains its negation which is part of that same fucking... Seems to be the same
kind of Heraclitian idea. He's saying that to Zizek, Hegel's idea of absolute knowledge
is like... He's basically saying Francis fucking Youngway was wrong. There is no end of history
and Hegel's idea of absolute knowledge isn't a final point that we reach. It's actually
the recognition that there is no final point and never can be. That things are always changing
and being both... Like containing the negation. Things are always both negating and they're
always revealing and concealing, etc. I clearly need to look into Hegel more. I kind of brushed
him off. I guess there's a reason I found his... When I first heard about his ideas of Brown...
Not that he actually said this but the whole thesis/synthesis thing which is actually a
bastardization and simplification of what he's actually saying. That is apparently...
I was super excited when I heard about that and then I kind of heard a bunch of the final
like... The interpretations of him that were about like... He talks about moving towards
a final point and I was like "Well, meh." But Zizek clearly sees him differently and
there's other interpretations of him so I need to look into him I think. A quote from
this episode. Absolute... Not the exact quote but almost a quote. Absolute knowledge is
embracing the dialectical... The never-ending dialectical process. We have always been in
a constant state of negotiation and tension. The truth is that we need ideology in order
to be able to function as people because otherwise... An important thing he was saying previously
is that... Think about... He's basically saying everything contains its... The law contains
its negation. It's defined by its negation. It's defined by... You can't know what the
law is unless you know what a transgression is. But it's not just one negation. It's like
many or even all of them or even infinite. You could define... You can define law by
what it's not in terms of tradition. All sorts of things basically. And he's saying that...
Think about all the... If that's the case, think about all the ways that you could define...
You could understand and define the thing which is enormous if not infinite. And that's
the point of ideology. That's the purpose of ideology. It hands you ready-made positive
in the sense of existing, not existing. Or what's there, what's not there. Not denegations.
Ideology usually hands you... Here's a set of positive things. Here's a set of things
that exist. And ideology structures allows us to not have to do all of that work. It
gives us a ready-made set of ways of seeing the world. Because there is an infinite number
of ways of seeing the world. Or maybe not infinite, but an almost infinite number of
ways of seeing the world. A band of infinity perhaps. Yeah. So in that way ideology is
basically like the world views or the views through the window that I have been talking
about. So ideology is basically unavoidable. Which makes it difficult when I get really
frustrated with people being ideologically motivated. But it's also like, I guess, coming
to recognise, it's that same recognition, that spark, that moment that made me be like,
"Oh, this is like..." That moment I had that made me want to do the manifesto. It's that
recognition that we always have to be looking through the window. We're always looking through
the window. We have to look through the window and it can't ever be different. And therefore
we need to be kinder to ourselves and to others for their view through the window. Yeah. There's
some connection there that I need to explore more between this and this idea and this episode
and what I've been thinking here. And the notes I made back last year about episode
27 of "Awaiting From The Meaning Crisis". Thinking about heuristics and algorithms and
lack of certainty and the necessity of, what John Viveci says about the necessity of we
always have to be using heuristics because the world is combinatorially explosive. That's
actually basically the same, that's deeply connected if not the same thing that we're
talking about here. In some sense, ideology is heuristics. Ideology is a heuristic. It
is a heuristic way of seeing the world and we need that because the world is combinatorially
explosively complex. So we need ideology to avoid that combinatorial explosion. We are
always so I can directly connect what John Viveci is talking about with what Hegel is
talking about and what Zizek is talking about. God damn. I can see why I want to like, I
get to a point where I want to avoid this because it just like it goes so deep and everywhere
and it's like there's so much stuff that I want to read as part of this but it gets overwhelming
and I get so wrapped up in it that it's like I'm not going to do with the 3D printer but
I totally forget about the 3D printing and I'm like but I want to get that 3D printing
done but I can't do both. I need to work out a way to balance that but fuck this is,
this is like addictive. I want to pursue that so badly. I want to pursue that and understand
it and dive into it so deep. It like lifts my whole mood when I get one of those, when
I get into that kind of like oh everything's, all these connections and excitement and insight.
It makes it feel like doing that, doing that makes other things feel worthwhile. Like it's
like it makes going to work and doing this job worthwhile if it gives me the capacity
to do that, to do this thing. You know I can feel my whole mood has lifted a bit. It's
not entirely like I'm still, I mean it's probably also that it's like a really lovely
day right now but just there's a different, there's a different, the world looks different
you know. I was driving along and saw a place I drive past every day, the hill up behind
Albion and saw that and was like wow that's really beautiful and it like filled me with
excitement and I'm feeling like, I've been feeling really down about my health stuff
and how it's fucked up my plans. Melbourne and Brisbane and UK and I'm feeling now like
well maybe I can just move to the UK, skip Melbourne for now, move to the UK and do the,
still do the six months to a year thing at the end of this year after I've gotten a couple
of things done and then come back and do my honours, move down to Melbourne, all of that.
I can still do all of those things and that suddenly all feels, it doesn't feel oppressive,
it suddenly feels exciting. That's still battling a bit with the feelings of normality and drudgery
and depression and all that but just that, having that moment, having that connection
makes things feel, the whole world changes for me.
