So I'm thinking of this is what I'm going to say to Holly, I think.
Like, Holly and I already had a call last night and we talked about me coming down.
I think he's saying, "I am, as I've said previously, as we talked about, I am strongly considering
just coming down, regardless of what's happening with us, for a month to three, one to three
months.
I need a break from Brisbane and I'm kind of at a point in my life where I want to explore
things and that's, it's like, I'm stuck.
Kind of like, do I want to move to Melbourne?
Do I want to move to the UK?
Do I want to stay here and keep saving money?
And staying in Brisbane and keep saving money is the thing I keep defaulting to, but now
I'm getting to a point where I want to do something different and I think the different
thing, the thing I'm going to do, like, the way you work out what I want is to do them.
So I'm going to test going to Melbourne and I think I'm going to test going to the UK.
So yeah.
But realistically, I have made the decision.
I don't want to be in a long-term relationship right now.
I didn't want to, you know, as part of what I've been struggling with this whole time
as I, our relationship opened me up to things and I want to explore, I'm in an exploratory
phase of my life.
My life is up in the air.
I don't want to be in a committed relationship right now.
I don't want to be in a long-term relationship and I definitely don't want to be in a long-term
relationship and I don't want to be in a committed relationship.
I don't want to commit to anything.
I want to have the freedom to just, because my life is so up in the air and I want to
be able to explore things.
But I would, depending on how things are going and how we're feeling, I would, maybe it's
a bad idea, but I would be open to the other two of us dating while I'm down here, while
I'm living in Melbourne.
And maybe that will show us some things that maybe could work if we get the opportunity
at some point in the future or could show us that it definitely won't work.
Because we're more aware of the problems now and yeah.
But I know that I don't want to be in a committed relationship because I probably want to move
to the UK and I don't want to be influenced.
I don't want my life decisions right now to be influenced by somebody else.
If our relationship, that's part of the point of breaking up.
We were tied to each other and our lives are up in the air and we needed to, both of us
needed to make decisions for ourselves and I want to be able to make decisions for myself
without having to really consider somebody else.
And that's probably a bit, maybe that's a bit selfish, but at this point in my life
that's what I need.
And that doesn't work with being in a committed relationship.
But I also love you.
I love spending time with you.
I love being around you.
I love our sexual connection.
And I feel like there's more for us to explore there.
I feel safe with you in a lot of ways.
And if I'm coming down to Melbourne anyway I would be open to exploring, I would be open
to things with you.
Like basically I'm not saying a hard no to everything, I'm saying a hard no to our, to
being in a committed, to trying again for our committed relationship, our LTR for, you know,
and I'm not saying no to that absolutely forever, like maybe at some point in the future if
we get the opportunity we could try again, maybe, but probably not for a couple of years.
And that's like entirely up in the air.
Like basically what I'm saying is no for now and a while for that.
But you know, I'm not sure if that's what we were, entirely what we were talking about
when we were talking about trying different things.
And I would be open to still trying some things even though I don't want to be in a
committed, you know, I'd be open to having a more casual relationship if that's something
that both of us are interested in.
Like I don't know if that's a good idea or not, but I'm open to other things.
I just don't want either of us to do it because we're holding onto the hope that it could
turn into a long term relationship, back into, you know, that we could get our committed
relationship back because that's not what I need right now.
It's so hard to just, like I keep coming back to this, I know this is what I need, but then
I think about things and I'm like, "Oh, maybe, maybe it could work."
And really I'm just scared of her and scared of letting go and saying goodbye.
I'm scared that if I do this she's going to be like, "No, I never want to see you again.
Goodbye."
I'm open to other things.
I'm open to friendship.
I'm open to casually dating.
Open to being, having a situation shift.
I'm open to all sorts of other things, but I'm not open to Elle and I don't want to get
into something with the hope that it turns into that.
So if we do get into something it's probably not going to be something that's like, "Oh,
it might turn into a long term relationship."
It would be, because I probably want to try both living in Melbourne and living in the
UK for the next year or two.
That's probably what my life is going to be while I try and sort out what the fuck I'm
doing with myself.
That's part of my decision.
I don't want to be in Brisbane anymore.
Where do I want to be?
Try being in a few different places.
Yeah.
And the thing with the coming down to Melbourne for three months thing is, I think it's probably
very likely that I come down to Melbourne for three months.
Thoroughly enjoy my time there.
Come back to Brisbane.
This is probably what will end up happening.
I come down to Melbourne for three months.
I thoroughly enjoy my time.
I come back to Brisbane.
I get my tooth sorted.
I spend another month or two, maybe like another couple of months in Brisbane getting things
sorted, selling things, recovering from my injury, saving a bit more money again.
And then I move over to the UK for six months to a year.
That's probably what I'm going to end up doing.
That is to have a very high likelihood at this point.
Of course then there's all these other considerations like uni degrees and study and what I'm doing
for work and my career and all those things.
But right now I think those are the things I need to do.
I think right now maybe where I'm living takes precedence over what I'm doing.
I've maybe just gotten to that point.
I can go to Brisbane, the UK for six months and be like, "I want to try what this is like
and I love it and I'll come back at some point, but I need to go back to Australia and finish
my degree."
And if that's the case then that shows that for me.
But I need to do something.
I can't keep doing what I'm doing basically.
[silence]
