There's some really good stuff, and so I'm listening to episode 370 of Lex Fridman podcast,
which is his interview with Edward Frankel, who is a mathematician who's working at the
border between mathematics and quantum physics. He has some really good things to say, and
I'm just going to do what he... show what he says. Okay, here it is.
But I do have a tremendous certainty of it, and that's a subjective certainty. Now, I
am, as a scientist, I'm also trained to give more credibility to objective arguments, and
other things that can be reproduced, things that I can demonstrate, that I can show. But
as I get older, as I get more mature, hopefully, I'm starting to question why I am not giving
as much credibility to my subjective understanding of the world, the kind of the first-person
perspective. When actually modern science has already sold on that, quantum mechanics
has shown unambiguously that the observer is always involved in observation. Likewise,
Gödel's incompleteness theorems, to me, show how essential is the observer of mathematical
theory. For one thing, that's the one who chooses the axioms. And we can talk about
this in more detail. Likewise, Einstein's relativity, where time is relative to the
observer, for instance. That's brilliant. You're just describing all these different
scales, the observer with the observer. That's right. So, the science of the 19th century
had the, from modern perspective, and I don't want to offend anybody, had the delusion that
somehow you could analyze the world being completely detached from it. We now know,
after the landmark achievements from the first half of the 20th century, that this is nonsense.
This is simply not true. And this has been experimentally proved time and time again.
So to me, I'm thinking maybe it's a hint that I should take my first-person perspective
seriously as well, and not just rely on kind of objective phenomena, things that can be
proved in a traditional sort of objective way, by setting up an experiment that can
be repeated many times. Maybe I fall in love, the deepest love of my life, perhaps, perhaps
hasn't happened yet, perhaps I will fall in love, but it's unique, it's a unique event.
You can't reproduce it necessarily, you see. So in that sense, you see how these things
are closely connected. I think that if we are declaring from the outset that all there
is to life is, you know, computation in the form of neural networks or something like
this, however sophisticated they might be, I think we are from the outset denying to
ourselves the possibility that yes, there is a side of me which is not faking it, yes,
there is a side of me which cannot be captured by logic and reason. And you know what another
great scientist said, Blaise Pascal, he said, "The heart has its reasons of which the reason
knows nothing." And then he also said, "The last step of reason is to grasp that there
are infinitely many things beyond it." How interesting, this was not a theologian, this
was not a priest, this was not a spiritual guru, it was a hardcore scientist who actually
developed I think one of the very first calculators.
My fucking aux cord keeps shitting itself.
I think one of the very first calculators. How interesting that this guy also was able
to impart on us that wisdom. Now, you can always say that's not the case, but why should
we from the outset exclude this possibility that there is something to what he was saying?
That is my question. I'm not taking sides. What I'm trying to do is to shake a little
bit the debate because most mathematicians that I know and computer scientists even more
so, they are kind of already sold on this. We are just, you know, reminds me of this
famous Lord Kelvin's quote from the end of 19th century. There's some debate whether
he actually said that, but never let a good story stand in the way of truth. He said physics
is basically finished, all that remains is more precise measurement. So I find a lot
of my colleagues are happy to say, "Everything's finished, we already got it, we got it." Maybe
a little tweaks in our language models, you know?
So now here's my question. I'm kind of playing devil's advocate a little bit because I don't
see the other side of the quote that I've presented that much. And I'm saying, okay,
could it be also that if you believe in that, that that becomes your reality? That you kind
of put yourself in a box where everything is competition and then you start seeing things
as being such. It's confirmation bias, if you will, you know? This also reminds me, you
know, that I think a good analogy is a friend of mine, Philip Caution, told me that in France
there is this literary movement, which is called...
I'm skipping a little bit here. You know, this is still pretty useful. Talking about
a 300 page novel written in French, that...
Which never uses the letter E, which is the most widely used letter of the French language.
So in other words, he set these parameters for himself. I'm going to write a book where
I don't use this letter, which is a great, you know, it's a great experiment and I upload
it. But that's one thing to do that and to kind of show his gamesmanship, as you will,
and his proclivity and his ability as a writer. But it's another thing if at the end of writing
this book, when you finish the book, he would say letter E actually doesn't exist. And you
try to convince us that in fact French language does not have that letter, simply because
he was able to go so far without using it. So...
I think that's a really good point. You know, it's like just because we can do all this
stuff, just because we can do all this shit with AI and language models and computation
and stuff doesn't mean that that's... nothing else exists. You know, just because we can
do a lot with computation doesn't mean the universe is computation and other alternatives
are wrong.
For fuck's sake.
Fucking auxiliary cord. Back to it.
I see it. And I wonder why we should do that. Do we really need...
What's fucking happening?
And I'm saying it, you know, it's a personal question for me, because I am addicted to
knowledge.
Okay. Pausing this.
Hi, my name is Edward.
Skipping this bit. I mean, it's drifting away from the central point a little bit, but actually
this is like still useful because I think a lot of the people I disagree with are like
this, basically. What is he about to say?
Did not feel comfortable if I could not say the given answer, explanation. It's like,
oh, there has to be some explanation. And I try to frantically search for it. Just for
somebody like me, a nerd, you know, a left brainiac, and, you know, that's kind of typical
for scientists, for mathematicians. It is incredibly hard just to allow the possibility that it's
a mystery and not to feel the urge to get the answer. It is incredibly hard, but it's possible,
and it is liberating. It's recovering. It's recovering, I think, to knowledge. Let me
say what you gain from it. For instance, I understand the value of paradoxes.
This is an important bit.
I appreciate paradoxes more. And, you know, to use another philosopher, Søren Kierkegaard,
the Danish philosopher said, "A thinker without paradox is like a lover without passion."
And Paul III, you know, said, and, you know, Niels Bohr said, Simmerwijn, the great Danish
philosopher, something about the Danes, I think it all started with Hamlet, you know.
He said the opposite of a simple truth is a falsity, but the opposite of a great truth
is another great truth. In other words, things are not black and white, you know. They're
not, and I would even venture to say the most interesting things in life are like that.
The ones which are ambiguous. Is an electron a particle or a wave? It depends how you set
up an experiment. It will reveal itself as this or that, depending on how you set up
an experiment. This bottle, if you project it down onto the table, you will see more
or less a square. If you project it onto a wall, you will see a different shape. A naive
question would be, is it this or that? We understand that it's neither. But both projections
reveal something. They reveal different sides of it.
That is that bit. I mean, all of that was important, particularly the stuff at the start,
and the stuff now is important, but that bit is like fucking, that's aspectuality. That
is the window vision. That is every revealing is a hiding. You can't see everything all
at once. Whenever you see, there are multiple aspects to everything, and you can only ever
see bits of them at a time, and when you see some bits, you're not seeing others. Aspectuality
is exactly what he's talking about. A paradox is like that. It's only paradoxical
if we are confined in a particular vision, if we are wedded to a particular point of
view. It's a harbinger, if you will, of a possibility of seeing things as they are,
more sophisticated than we thought before. That is so, so powerful, and I think that's
part of why I love paradoxes so much as well. It's like they are a harbinger. When you are
stuck in a particular viewpoint, seeing particular aspects, and that's all you can see, and we
are like that, and our knowledge structures are like that. Paradoxes are a harbinger of
the way things are. They're an avenue to see, to break out of that viewpoint. But the important
part is to not just completely throw out the old viewpoint, because every viewpoint has
a little of the truth in it. I mean, not every viewpoint. That's maybe an overstatement.
I feel like that might be the case, but maybe that's overstating it. But almost every, like
most viewpoints probably have a little bit of the truth in them, so it's important not
to just throw out the baby with the bathwater. Oh, we had this way of seeing things. It was
shown to be not correct in these ways, therefore that viewpoint is wrong, therefore we'll throw
it out and get a better one. It's like, well, not really, because yes, there's problems
with it, and we can gain a new viewpoint that basically it's like, well, here's the important
parts of that, the actual useful part, what we need to do, because what we do is we're
like, that was wrong, right, throw it all out, get a new viewpoint, and we'll just use
that one instead, because this one was clearly wrong, and we'll use the correct one instead.
It's like, well, none of them are correct. None of them are the right one. They are all
valuable in their own way, and it's like, well, for fuck's sake, we have to work out, we have
to know or find out what was, or hold on to what was useful, and that's the transcendence,
that's the moving beyond but still containing, because you see what didn't work in the old
viewpoint and hold on to what did, but like meta-rationality, it's switching between viewpoints,
there's no one viewpoint can, and that is the transcendence. The transcendence is learning
which viewpoints to use in which instances, or what elements of what viewpoints work in
what instances, and how you can combine them, change them, et cetera, et cetera. That's
actually, that's the next step, that's the transcendence, and that's what we're not doing,
I mean, that's what we're kind of, we do sometimes do a little bit, but mostly we're just like,
all right, that was wrong, throw that out, get this other thing, or your hardcore reactor
just won, and because we're always going to have this balance of things, we're always
going to have, there are elements of every viewpoint which are valid. Maybe not every
viewpoint but a lot of, or most viewpoints, like conservatives, they have their important
point parts, parts of what they're trying to say. Not all of it. And knowing when to
use those viewpoints and when not to is the goal, it's the extremely difficult but extremely
important, oh for fuck's sake, it's the extremely difficult but extremely important thing we
need to learn how to do is to do that. And that's, everything this guy has just said
is yet more evidence of that because, and the first part of what he was saying is that's,
like, you can never view the thing from outside, you're always an observer, there is always
an observer that's affecting things, you always have to choose your set of axioms you're working
from, you can never not have axioms, and you can also, but you can never have perfect axioms,
you'll always be incomplete. You have to choose your set of axioms. And it's about maintaining
flexibility and fluidity and being open to changing those axioms or learning when those
axioms work and when they don't. And learning in which situations to use them and which
ones not to. Yeah. And also I love paradoxes. And I need to, the Edward Frankel guy is good
shit.
Heisenberg tells us that unambiguous in quantum mechanics, actually, Heisenberg, I think,
captured it the best, what we observe is not reality itself, but reality subjected to our
method of questioning. When I talk about electrons, there is a very specific way in which this
is realized, it's so called double slit. You have a screen and you have an emitter from
which you send, you kind of shoot electrons, and in between you put another screen which
has two vertical slits parallel to each other. If we were shooting tennis balls, each ball
would go through one slit or another and then hit the screen behind this or that slit, so
you would have, let's say they're colored, they're painted, so there will be sort of bumps
or spots of paint behind this or that. But that's not what happens when we shoot electrons.
We see an interference pattern as if we were actually sending a wave so that each electron,
it seems like each electron goes through both slits at once and then has the audacity to
interfere with itself, where at some points two crests would amplify and at some points
the crests and the trough would cancel each other. Yet, so that suggests, okay, so the
electron is a wave, not so fast, because if you put a detector behind one of the slits
and you say, "I'm going to capture you, I'm going to find out which slit you went through,"
the pattern will change and it will look like there are particles. So that's a very concrete
realization of the idea that depending on how we set up an experiment, we will see different
results. And the problem is that our psyche, I feel, is kind of lagging behind, in part
because maybe our scientists are not doing such a great job, so I take responsibility
for this. Why haven't I explained this properly? I tried in a bunch of talks and so on, so that
way I'm talking about this again. Our psyche is kind of lagging behind. Even though our
science has progressed so much from the certainty and the determinism and all of that of the
19th century. Our psyche is somehow still attached to those ideas, the ideas of causality,
of this naive determinism that the world is a bunch of billiard balls hitting each other,
driven by some blind forces. That's not at all like it is, and we've known this for about
a hundred years at least. You call this self-imposed limitation. It is a self-imposed limitation.
That's some good shit. Although I think he's kind of neglecting to mention, I think he's
kind of not saying that, what he's not saying is yes, we've known that for a hundred years,
but I think we've been grappling with that and the implications of it, basically. That's
why quantum mechanics is such a fuckery, basically. But yeah, our most advanced science, basically,
although there's a lot of physics seems to be trying to show that observer effect. It's
like trying to get rid of that observer effect, trying to get back to objectivity, complete
objectivity. I suspect that's probably not working, and probably every time we try it,
it actually just proves it even more.
For the post limitation, when we pretend that, for instance, that this naive ideas of 19th
century physics are still valid, and then start applying them to our lives, and then
also derive conclusions from it, and for instance, people say, "There is no free will." Why?
"Oh, because the world is just a bunch of a billion balls. Where is the free will?" But
excuse me, didn't you get the memo that this has been debunked thoroughly by the so-
Which is our best scientific theory. This is not some kind of bullshit or some kind of
concoction of a madman. This is our scientific theory, which has been confirmed by experiment.
We should pay attention to that. Of course, it's not just self-imposed limitation. Unfortunately,
in this case, there is a big issue of education. A lot of people are not aware of it through
no fault of their own, because they-
Good shit.
Our system is broken, education system is broken, especially in math. Where do we get
information? You get information from our scientists who actually write popular books
and so on, which is a great thing that they do. But a lot of scientists somehow, when
it comes to explaining the laws of physics, they're doing a fantastic job talking about
this phenomenon, for instance, double slit experiment, things like that. But then, interviewed
by Science Magazine about free will and so on, they revert back to 19th century physics
as if those developments actually never happened. So to me, this is single most important issue
in our popular science. The idea that somehow there is this world out there, but it has
nothing to do with me. So I can revel in the intricacies of these particles and their interactions,
but completely ignore what implications this has for my own relationship to physical reality,
to my own life, because it's kind of scary, I guess.
Also, what are the tools with which we can talk about the observer, the subject?
I'm going to stop recording now. So it's the end of the day, walking back to my car,
continuing on this Eric Frankman, Frankle, Frankle, whatever the fuck his name is. They've
gotten on to talking about Gödel's incompleteness theorems. He says something really interesting,
which is that he says, "Okay, what is math? What is math based on?" We can say physics
is based on maths, chemistry is based on physics, biology is based on chemistry, psychology
is based on biology, etc., etc., etc. Which means the old reductionist thing of if you
keep reducing it down, eventually you get to maths. It's like, "Well, okay, then what
is maths if each of those other things is based on something else? What is maths based
on?" And he says maths is based on axioms. I've just gotten up to where he's going on
to talk about formal systems. So underlying maths, which means essentially underlying
everything is, in our world view anyway, is axioms. And as he was saying, you always have
to choose your axioms. Does any field of mathematics get presented as a formal system? Does at
the core of any formal system is a set of axioms or postulates? Axioms are statements
that are taken for granted and presented without proof, and everything else is based on them.
Very first formal system, although I think that's actually really false, but this is
the very first formal system, which was Euclid's geometry. It's the first formal system which
was Euclidean geometry presented in Euclid's Elements. He says Euclid's geometry, the example
of an axiom is for any two points, separate points, there's a unique line that passes
through them. As in maths you have to have a seed you start off with, you have to have
sets of statements that you present without proof, and you have to just take it as formal
and build it from there. He says usually the axioms are intuitively clear, but you can't
have any mathematics without choosing those axioms. Which is interesting because intuition
is based on intuition through the world. I feel like it kind of puts paid a little bit
to rationalist ideas of just thinking about it. If maths is based on axioms, which is
based on, choosing your axioms is based on intuition essentially. You choose axioms that
seem self-evident, but they are self-evident because they're obvious because of your experiences.
Therefore experience is important. And he says that's where the observer comes in. The
observer comes in choosing the axioms. Or, spicy, so he says mathematicians play a bit
of a game of smoke and mirrors because they claim that maths is the only objective knowledge,
it's the only objective science. But they do that because they hide the fact that you
have to choose your axioms. Which is a subjective thing. There's no unique choice, there's no
one right choice, there are many choices. Interesting, so he's getting into basically non-Euclidean
geometry and how it happened. And talked about how Euclidean geometry had five axioms and
the last one, the fifth one, was the one about the unparalleled lines and parallel points,
which I just don't quite understand. But he's basically saying he was uncomfortable with
it because it was less obvious than the others. The other ones were all pretty obvious and
clear, that one was less so. And he was uncomfortable because he felt it wasn't. He was taking it
for granted but it wasn't super clear that it was actually the case. And for a long time,
oh for fuck's sake. I don't want to get my fucking shit on my car. Fuck. He's basically
saying that people were trying to derive the unclear axiom, the fifth axiom, from the other
axioms for a long time and kept failing. I think that's what eventually led to non-Euclidean
geometry. He says you basically start with your, in a formal system you start with your
set of axioms that you have to choose, although most of the time you're not actually choosing
the axioms, you're just going with a formal system where the axioms have already been
chosen. He's not saying that, that's what I'm saying, but yeah, you choose your set of axioms
based on your axioms, you get a particular formal system, and then from there you have
rules of inference, logical rules of inference that you work from those axioms out to conclusions,
basically. But it's still entirely dependent on the axioms you choose. And I'm going to
make sure there's probably methods for determining which axioms are more and less good, basically.
But most of those rules of logical inference were discovered by Aristotle. He says so you've
got your axioms that are taken as true, true statements, from there you have your logical
rules of inference from which you can generate new statements, and those are called theorems.
Theorems are added to the collection of true statements because they are basically you're
going from axioms that are taken to be true, and because those axioms are true, and you're
using deductive logic, which is like, if this is the case, if A is the case, then B has
to be the case. So as long as your axioms are true, your statements have to be true.
So you're adding them to the list of, so theorems are basically proved. But they're still based
on axioms, having to choose axioms. I want it to be true, you don't want the system to
be trivial, like you don't want it to be able to prove everything, otherwise it's self-contradictory,
like if it proves A and A's negation. Although that's then, there's the whole thing about
fuzzy logic and all that shit, consistency. A formal system has to be consistent in the
sense that it, oh wait, hold on, it says. It is not self-contradictory. It's not self-contradictory,
so it doesn't prove statements that are, it doesn't prove statements and their negation.
So if a formal system proves a statement, it needs to disprove that formal system's,
that statement's negation. That's consistency. The idea at the start of the 20th century,
end of the 19th, end of the 19th, start of the 20th century was that we just needed to
get to the correct set of axioms basically, so that you could prove basically anything.
You could pretty much prove without a shadow of a doubt that anything was the case. Or
not the case. You could prove it true or untrue, but you could know.
And then the idea that was basically prevalent in the world of mathematics by the beginning
of the 20th century was that in principle all of mathematics could be derived this way.
We just have to find the correct system of axioms and then everything you ever need would
be, could be produced by this procedure, which is really algorithmic procedure, which you
have to, which actually.
And that's an algorithmic, like you just said, that's an algorithmic procedure, which gets
into everything that John Babakie's talking about with algorithms and heuristics and certainty
and all that kind of stuff. You know, that they're basically trying to use maths algorithmically
to arrive at certainty. That's what they were trying to do. And it didn't fucking work.
It could be run on a computer. Now think about it. What is special about this process? Now
think about it. What is special about this process? In this process, you are just manipulating
symbols. Basically you're going from one statement to another without really understanding
the meaning of it. So it's an ideal playground for computer program. It's a purely syntactic
process.
Where there's some rule.
Yeah, that's what, that's, that's why it's formal. Cause it's about the form, the syntax,
not the, not the content, not the, the semantics. It's completely free of semantic context,
content. It's completely, completely free of meaning. Anything can be in the place of
those things of the, they're variables basically.
Some rigid rules of, you're going from one statement to another without really understanding
the meaning of it. So it's an ideal playground for computer program. It's a purely syntactic
process where there's some rules, some rigid rules of passing from one statement to the
next.
Most mathematicians, mathematicians believed that this way you can produce all true statements.
And if this...
Yeah. So that's what they wanted. They, they, they believed at the start of the 20th century
before Gödel's incompleteness theorems, that you could arrive at true state, like all true
statements through that process and have certainty about what was true and what wasn't. And that
was proven wrong.
For true, it would give a lot of credibility to the thesis that everything in life is computational.
And this is why Gödel's incompleteness theorem is, is a good pushback against the idea that
it's, everything is computational. Everything is computation. Although, you know, there's
a lot of smart people who still think that it is computation and I don't know, maybe
they don't. Maybe this guy's misunderstanding, I mean, Gödel's incompleteness theorem. Maybe
those people aren't misunderstanding Gödel's incompleteness theorem. Maybe they just haven't
paid attention to it. Who knows?
Or life is computational. Because then, at least mathematics is computational because
then it can be programmed. And the computer, after sufficient time, depending on its capacity,
would produce every true statement. So Gödel's first incompleteness theorem says that that's
not the case. And it not just says it, but it proves it at, you know, the highest level
of rigor that is available in mathematics.
Wow. Proves it at the highest level of rigor.
That is to say within another formal system that he was operating in. So, more precisely,
what he proved was that if you have a sufficiently sophisticated formal system, that is to say
that you can talk about numbers, whole numbers in it. That you have whole numbers, one, two,
three, four, you have formalized the operation of addition and multiplication within the
system. If it is consistent, that is to say, if it's not completely useless, then there
will be a true statement in it which cannot be derived by this linear syntactic process.
So if the system is consistent, it will be incomplete. So if it proves statements and
disproves their negatives, their negations, there will be some statements that it can...
Hold on.
Say, if it's not completely useless, then there will be a true statement in it which
cannot be derived by this linear syntactic process.
So if it is consistent, like I said, then there will be some statement that can't be derived
within that system, that can't be found, which means it's not complete.
Of proving theorems from axioms. It's really incredible. So this was a revolution, 1931,
revolution in logic, revolution in mathematics. We're still feeling the tremors.
Yeah. Wow. Revolution in mathematics and logic that we're still feeling the tremors of now.
Honestly, it seems like we've kind of just... It's not really filtered out of maths all
that much, I think.
And at a similar time, the computer is being born. The actual engineering of the computational
system is being born.
Alan Turing, who is considered as the father of modern computing, he actually did something
very similar. So he had this halting problem. He proved that halting problem cannot be solved
algorithmically. Out of all computer programs, roughly speaking, you cannot have an algorithm
of choosing out of all possible computer programs which ones are meaningful, which ones will
not... Which ones will halt.
Very depressing results all across the table.
Or, on the contrary, life-affirming. Depends on your point of view.
Because everything is full of paradoxes.
So that means... So you're right. It's depressing if we are sold on a certain idea from the
outset.
Yeah. That's the thing. It is... It chatters certain ideas, and those ideas are pretty
fucking important to our worldview, to some of our worldview. And it's deeply, I think,
painful or damaging to some particular worldviews that hold a great deal of sway. But... And
people like Jayden, who are searching for certainty, it's damaging too. But, like he
said, it's also life-affirming. It opens things back up.
And then suddenly this doesn't pan out. But, okay, to which I retort. What if he proved
that actually, you know, everything can be proved? So then what? What is left to do if
you're a mathematician?
So that would be depressing to me. And here there is an opportunity to do something new,
to discover something new which maybe a computer will not be able to. Again, with a caveat,
according to our current understanding, maybe some new ideas will be brought into the subject.
And the meaning of the word computation, that now we think of computation in a particular
framework, Turing machines or church thesis and stuff like that. But what if in the future
another genius like Alan Turing will come and propose something else, the theory will
evolve the way, you know, we went from Newton's gravity to Einstein's gravity? Maybe in the
framework of that concept some other things will become possible. You know? So, it's not,
to me it's kind of like not so much about...
I'm going to stop recording now. Just as he says something really important, he says it's
about accepting that it's not about finding how it is or the correct answer, it's about
accepting that it's, and here's the important part, an open-ended process. An open-ended
process. Fucking here we go again. Right back to it. Right back to my views, John Verbecki's
views, etc, etc. More evidence. It is an open-ended process. Life is an open-ended process. Reality
is an open-ended process. Works from there on to... and on to... on to... basically aspectuality
again. He's talking about how the, you know, the yellow and white dress or the blue and
black dress, you know, there's no way of proving which one's correct, you know, and other things
like the duck, he doesn't say this, but the duck rabbit or like Wittgenstein's duck rabbit
or he says something about a vase that can also be two faces, etc, etc. He immediately
said the duck rabbit afterwards. Stings, he's talking about how, about AI, neural networks,
deep and large language models and how we're giving them training data and trying to get
them to optimally arrive at the correct picture, but there is like, well, sometimes there isn't
a correct answer to what the picture is. Says, you know, the trivial way that the AI does
it is to say that there's an X percentage chance of it being a rabbit and an X percentage
chance of it being a duck. And then Eric. Eric? I don't know if this guy's name is...
has a pushback against that. Eric? Edward. Edward Finkle. Frenkle. Which is like, yeah,
something straight into aspectuality here. He's saying the best way we have to think
about it is if you see some part of it, you're obscuring, you're going to obscure some other
part of it, which is aspectuality. He says so that is apparently, I think he calls it
complementarity where, you know, if you can see the moon from one side, but you can't
see the other, but it's still there, like the moon is still there, I think. And he's
saying we know from quantum physics that that actually is the case in reality. Like reality
is like that. Reality is aspectual, I guess. He doesn't really explain it very well, but
important. So he says implicit within the idea of, you know, is thinking computational,
is consciousness computational? He says implicit within that idea is the idea that our consciousness
is aware, I'm just going to fucking play it. That implicit in the discussion of the question
is thinking computational and so on is the idea that our conscious awareness covers everything
within our psyche. And we just know that that's not the case. We have, all of us have observed
other people who have had sort of destructive tendencies. So obviously they did things destructive
for themselves. And many of us have observed ourselves to doing that as part of human nature.
So and there is great research in analytic psychology and, you know, in the past hundred
years strongly suggesting, if not proving, the existence of what Carl Jung called the
unconscious, personal unconscious and also collective unconscious. That's a kind of a
circle of ideas which are under the radar screen. So that came from Lex talking about how, you
know, the AI is trained on humans. Humans are saying yes or no to the output of the
AI. That's how the training is done. And every one of those humans is going to have their
own bias that they're bringing to that process that they're not aware of. This is so good.
This is interesting. So Lex Friedman was saying that he contacted somebody else, some other
big name person, somebody, I can't remember, who said that this guy, Edward Frenkel, is
definitively one of the greatest living mathematicians. Which puts some weight on what he's saying.
Which is interesting given the things he's saying and how much they align with the things
I think. The questions came from Eric Weinstein who is apparently a colleague and friend,
or at least a friend of Edward's, who according to Edward is a bit of a renaissance man. He
is straddle. So that's one of the things that's very special about him is he straddles so
many different disciplines. Which means he's probably worth listening to. I'm guessing
Lex has probably done an interview with him. That's a good one. Really interesting. He
says that part of what makes Eric Weinstein important is his humanity. He's a very balanced
and human person. But he says part of what was so, most of these really destructive societies
like Germany under Hitler, Russia under Stalin, were based on some unassailable truth. Some
conceptual system that seemed to be absolutely correct. Basically. The idea, the thing that
led the Nazis to their mass killings was basically, I don't think it actually means this, but
it was basically a mathematical idea. And they just bought into that and left their
humanity at the door.
