kind of faltering a bit, but I've just had, like, a very vague thought that I'm trying
to get down the outlines of to do with "Geed-a-Bors, Society of the Spectacle" and the "Being
and Having" mode.
So I'm listening to... I've been listening to a few things. I listened to the "Philosophies
this Episode on Geed-a-Bor", I listened to a little bit of "What's Left of Philosophy"
on Geed-a-Bor, and now I'm listening to an episode from the "Partially Examine Life"
on Geed-a-Bor, and all about the "Society of the Spectacle". And they've just said
in this podcast...
...it's interactions that are mediated by commodities, so we start to become isolated,
and in so doing...
Not that. Where is it?
...driven, it is not a conscious thing, it comes out of the modern means of production,
and is a result of the commodification of essentially everything...
Ugh, not that yet either.
...the Society of the Spectacle, and the Society of the Spectacle is just simply that our authentic
interactions with each other, and with the world, and with nature, have been replaced
by representations, and this is...
That's it, representations. Our authentic interactions or relationships with each other
and the world, and the other two podcasts have mentioned the three things. Relationship
with the world, relationship with others, and relationship with the self. All of those
interactions or relationships have been replaced by representations. Right? And that, and actually
he... one of the lines from "Society of the Spectacle" is something like, "Being has been
replaced by having, and having has been replaced, and having has become seeing," or something
like that. And, you know, that seems to me to be kind of a link between the Ian McGill
Chris right-brain, left-brain emissary, the left-brainification, left hemisphere-ification,
and also therefore John Vivecki's tyranny of... the propositional tyranny that has happened
in our society. So Guy Debord might be another useful... which, and Guy Debord is essentially
linking that complex of things directly to late-stage capitalism. And so many of the
like feelings, you know, so many of the feelings I struggle with on an almost daily basis about
our society and the way it is are to do basically with this reduction of everything to spectacle,
you know. So much of media and culture has just become a spectacle. Yeah, like, so I feel
like Guy Debord is like a useful... like, after doing the other stuff on kind of linking...
Dude, are you getting into this lane? What are you fucking doing? After linking... after
doing some of the work on, you know, propositional tyranny... it's like there's a link here, there's
this complex of things, this clustering of things, of Ian McGill Chris's right hemisphere
and left hemisphere, and his arguments about the left hemisphere's kind of like taking over
of the world and our worldview and society, which that being a bad thing because the right
... it's necessarily limited, you know, it's representations, etc. It represents, it doesn't
see the full picture, etc. etc. It's not really in contact with reality. But there's a link
to that. John Vivecki's tyranny, like everything Jordan Vivecki talks about with, you know,
the tyranny of the propositional, what David Chapman talks about with rationality and particularly
rationalism and the failures of rationalism and how a lot of our history has been the
search for certainty through rationalism and how that's failed. You know, and what comes
next, which for him is metarationality, which I think is the same thing as what John is
talking about with rationality. You know, that's what John's trying to talk about, wisdom
and rationality is, I think actually the same thing as what David Chapman's talking about,
which is metarationality. That's the next step to take. And all of those, that complex
of things now also links to Guy Debord and the Society of the Spectacle because he's
saying that our authentic relationships with the world, each other and ourselves has been
replaced by representations and being has been replaced by having and having has been
replaced by seeing. Appearing might be what it is, what he says. So he's, you know, and
he's critiquing, he's using it to kind of do like a Marxist critique of capitalism. But
that is directly linking, assuming I'm right about these things, that is directly linking
this other complex of things that I'm so interested in and it's actually probably one of my primary,
if not two or three top primary interests, this kind of clustering of things, which I
probably need to find a name for for myself, directly linking that to the problems with
late stage capitalism and my lived experience, and my and so many other people's lived experience
of the issues with it, that we constantly, you know, the things I constantly fucking
struggle with, that I'm constantly feeling hopeless about and like frustrated and annoyed
and angry and like full of despair and all these sorts of things. So I think Guy Debord
might be another step, another link in that chain. So it's probably worth looking at.
But I think I should maybe look at the other stuff first. Worth, right, like putting down
somewhere though as like this clustering, this is what I'm, you know, as my primary
interest area, this cluster basically. And that's actually one of the things I want to,
that's one of the primary things I want to explore and write about.
Meaning that this reduction of everything to representation arises out of the modern means
of production, which essentially just commodifies everything. And I agree and disagree or like
I definitely see part of that, but also think they maybe might be wrong in part of that,
in that I think the representation might, the problems with, the reduction of things
to representation might actually predate the modern means of production. The problems with
representation might predate the modern means of production and reducing everything, commodifying
everything. And that maybe the hyper commodification of everything is actually like a symptom of
the representation, reduction to representation. Because like the reduction to representation
is in some ways everything John Vivecki talks about, which is, you know, John Vivecki and
David Chapman talk about, which has thousands, like a thousand or two thousand year history
has been building for that time. But also that's a really like, yes, that's
something I have constantly struggled with is like the hyper commercialisation and commodification
of everything. That everything is becoming commercialised, that the market is making
its way into all parts of life. Everything is being turned into a commodity and it strips
like everything from life. When life, when that's what there is, everything feels, you
know, everything I can think of that I wanted, that I care about, that I want to do, that
fuck. Everything I can think of that is something
that I care about has been commodified and it constantly eats away at me and like, you
know, philosophy has been commodified in the academic sphere. Everything, anything I can
think of that is something that I care about and everything else has been commodified.
Our relationships with each other have been commodified. Walking around, just like being
in the world has been commodified. Every fucking thing has been commodified and it utterly
strips the world of meaning and value and it just feels, it feels inauthentic. It feels
dead. It feels like barely living. And that's a thing I've constantly, that's one of the
biggest struggles in my life is this constant feeling of everything is just, everything
feels flat and that's because it's been commodified which is exactly what they're saying. That
everything is now representation. Our relationships with everything have been reduced to representations.
So he's directly tying commodification and representation together. It's just, they're
also tying all of this to our increasing, to our isolation which is, you know, that's
goes hand, that's either goes hand in hand with or in, hand in hand with or is the same
thing as, you know, the change in our relationship to the world, each other and ourselves. We've
had the machine of capitalism or modern economic conditions constantly have to replace our
authentic real needs, hold on, there she is, to increasingly, ever increasingly replace
those commodities that don't satisfy, hold on, don't satisfy our direct needs with commodities
that, with new commodities basically which is basically what's, that kind of, I mean
he probably draws it from somewhere else but the critique that, what School of Life talks
about with capitalism in that it tries to sell us, you know, that you can buy these deep,
you know, you can, through capitalism you can meet these deep needs, these spiritual,
you know, let's just call it deep needs, non-commercial needs. You can, capitalism is based on selling
us and advertising is based on selling us on the idea that you can meet those needs,
the needs for respect and love and connection and all of those things through commodities.
You know, if you just buy the Coke you'll be happy. That's directly related to what
they're talking about here which is directly related to this whole complex of things and
representation and etc etc. And it's this self, hmmm, it's this self reinforcing machine
that constantly has to basically replace our needs with these yougores essentially and
they never meet them and it's dependent, the whole system is dependent on getting us to
believe that it will meet our needs and it never can basically and it's constantly self-perpetuating
through that. And he, then he kind of, the Marxist part of it is he says this whole,
that whole complex of things creates a barrier to having class consciousness that could result
in a revolution and that would change things. And that's where, that's the Marxist stuff,
the Marxist critique, the Marxist element of it is where I start to, the class stuff
is where I start to become much more sceptical. I'm very sceptical of class based analyses.
I'm not sure why that is but my hackles immediately go up. But they're also right, like it does
entirely like all of this, all that whole complex of things doesn't make it incredibly
difficult to bring full revolution to form. That's like the whole fucking point. It's
just, you know, when we start talking about revolution and I am extremely sceptical of
the revolutionary and class based ideas in Marxist analysis. I probably need to actually
read Marx and Marxist, some Marxist analysis to work out more about what they're actually
saying and whether, if I'm just having like an automatic reaction based on prior experiences
of, you know, my feelings about the radical left and Marxist critiques and modern leftist
Marxists and which I don't know where those feelings come from, I just get an immediate
reaction of like, "Ugh, push it away. Ugh, politics, gross. Don't like it. Don't want
to think about it. This is dumb." Not dumb, I can't quite put my finger on how I feel
about it but I immediately start to feel a bit derisive basically and start to take it
a bit less seriously. They link what Teguida Boy is talking to here with Marshall McLuhan's
idea of the medium is the message which I have seen used in the context of technology.
Probably a Heideggerian element here as well around technicity which then links back to
the whole left hemisphere thing, all of that. I feel like in some ways it's got the whole,
like, you know, the division in Marxism between the proletariat, you know, the worker, the
proletariat and the bourgeoisie and the, you know, the, I think in his thing, the bourgeoisie
are the capitalists, the owners of the means of production. There's some part of that that
strikes me as off or wrong, at least in the modern context. I'm not quite sure. Yeah.
Really interesting. So they're saying that, yeah, part of that whole process of kind of
like keeping the working class down is, and unable to bring about revolution, is ideology.
And they're saying that the bour is actually kind of extending into a much more sophisticated
analysis of ideology in his work. So they're saying that, so the whole Marxism's kind of
thing of ideology was that ideology is the ruling classes basically weigh the, like,
I think what they're saying is the ideology of capitalism is that, is the ruling classes
way of basically making their needs and what works for them, presenting it as their representation
of their needs as the best for everyone. You know, as capitalism is the best of all possible
worlds. They're saying this is, you know, they're drawing this directly from Marx, capitalism
is the best of all possible worlds. Some people are going to have less than others, but that's
just the way it has to be. And it's not perfect. And because of that it's not perfect, but
it's better than what it became before. And that's the conservative, and that's something
I've bought into too. That's kind of the idea of progress. Things are objectively better.
We have less violence. We've got less this, this, that and the other. We've got more equal
rights, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. And I guess this is saying is all of that actually
just representing or presenting capitalism as the best for everyone when it's really
just the best for the people at the top. That's the problem. The thing where I start to have
a problem is this idea of the people at the top. And them propagating the system for their
own benefit. I haven't fully, I haven't barely even started working it out, but I have a
reaction to that. A like, an acceptance of that and a frustration with that, but I'm
not entirely sure why. Basically in the Society of the Spectacle we get a much more sophisticated
elaboration of that because it's not just propaganda doled out by the bourgeoisie, the
ruling class to brainwash the proletariat. It's much more rule encompassing than that,
which I think it's like, sounds like it's kind of related to the culture industry arguments.
And that ideology is kind of baked into the fabric of capitalism and we are kind of like
taken up into it or become part of it or take part in it through our consumption and our
of commodities and of entertainment and all of those sorts of things. And in the process
our more concrete real lives are compromised because of that, which actually leads us to
like into a drug addiction cycle basically where we're more, we then try to go deeper
and we try to resolve that issue, that compromise, that compromise within the system by consuming
more. Which kind of sounds to me like there's some link there between that, all of this
and John Vivecki's idea of parasitic processing and what he talks about with drug addiction.
And like so much of, this is kind of like jumping away a bit, but so much of this idea
of what he's talking about with the spectacle and representation is so, and I think it feels
like it's very directly linked with Baudrillard and his idea of simulacrum and simulation.
And that's exactly the issue I have with like what they're talking about there, that's exactly
what is, for fuck's sake, what they're talking about there is exactly what's happened with,
I don't know, like modern forms of entertainment, like books, media, like most modern media
of all sorts is like that and it's the issue I have, it's why I'm so fucking burnt out
on all of it because it's all just refer- it's just referential, it's all just references
to other things. It's all just representations of other things. Represen-tations back to
prior points. I'd like to look into the connection between what he's talking about, what De Boer
is talking about and what Baudrillard's talking about. I think I'd like to look into the connection.
We saw a podcast episode that was basically Baudrillard versus, I think it's Baudrillard,
whoever the guy is that does the simulation in simulacrum, Baudrillard versus De Boer.
So I'd like to look at that.
Interesting. So they're talking about how he was part of, like one of the, like his
work Society of the Spectacle is like one of the core texts of the Situationist International
Movement, how they're talking about it. The idea of the situation is that it's a real
encounter, a real authentic encounter with your world, with your environment, with yourself,
unmediated by representations. And that to me kind of speaks of kind of like this, the
idea of like openness to the world that Simone Veigh talks about and that like attention
and like rather than projecting something onto it, onto the world, being open to it
as it is. Cause like surely that's how you have, like that would be what you would have
to do to encounter the world authentically surely. And then that relates to Heidegger
and his ideas of authenticity. Part of this idea of the situation is like basically being
able to just take an unmediated, just take a stroll, a flaneur basically, take a stroll
through the city and experience it as it is. And apparently like, which then like because
of that, that's, he has a very vehement like critique of modern city planning basically,
which is really interesting to me because obviously I'm also interested in urban design
and city planning and all of that. Which I think is, I was reading is like they were
talking about this idea of psychogeography, which is like a related, like there was like
the society of psychogeographers was part of the situationist international. All of these
really like important interesting connections here between things I'm, I was already interested
in. It just seems like this web is growing tighter. He's saying the environment that
capitalism is creating is very unfit for natural human impulses, which is absolutely fucking
true. I relate with that. I relate to that. Maybe it's not absolutely true, but I feel
that that strikes me very strongly. And I feel connections bubbling there, but I can't
quite make them out.
Connection between De Beaux's work and Hannah Arendt, who is apparently a critic of Marxism,
but who talks about how if you don't have a authentic relationship with yourself because
they're saying that the modern capitalism basically creates an environment where we can't be authentically
authentic with ourselves to ourselves, can't have an authentic relationship with ourselves.
And they're making a connection between that and Hannah Arendt, who apparently says if
you don't have an authentic relationship with time or with yourself, it's either with time
then you can't have an authentic relationship with others and time. So either authentic
relationship with yourself, can't have one with, if you don't have an authentic relationship
with yourself, you can't have an authentic relationship with time and others, or if you
don't have an authentic relationship with time, you can't have an authentic relationship
with yourself and others. Not quite sure which. And that directly relates to Heidegger because
Heidegger heavily talked about authenticity and Hannah Arendt was his student.
I go to the UQ library tomorrow. I should do a mind map. I should tonight or tomorrow
get a transcription of this thing that I'm doing and then do a mind map of this and all
these connections I'm making. Interesting, because they make a, they then immediately
afterward that, the last bit I was saying, they make a direct, they make a connection
to Eric Fromm's work in the art of loving. Fuck. Oh fuck, oh fucking I stop. So what
they were saying about Hannah Arendt's work is she's saying if you don't have an authentic
reaction to time and yourself, you can't have an authentic reaction to others. Which then
they're like, which then links to, reminds them of Eric Fromm's work and the art of loving.
So next day, just following a listening and driving to work listening to this again.
That's, how far into it is it? Almost the end. That doesn't actually tell me. About
15 minutes in they start talking about how we demonise the 1% in our modern discourse.
That, we demonise the 1% but that's, De Boer, not sure if he's talking about De Boer or
Marx, I think he's talking about, they're talking about De Boer. But he's saying De
Boer doesn't focus on that and they're saying even the people at the top, even the 1% are
enslaved to the system. They're basically saying, the system makes us slaves but there's
no slaver. Everybody is slave to the system and the system has become autonomous, basically.
Which is the thing that I, the point that I think is really important and that I get
constantly frustrated at other people about who bitch about rich people. I think this
is an important, really important point. This is interesting, so they're talking about how
Adorno, I think he's the culture, one of the culture industry guys, talking about how it's,
they're saying that Adorno is saying that it is the elite self-consciously pulling it
over on the masses to anaesthetise them. That they're the problem, basically. Whereas De
Boer is not saying that, he's saying they're part of the system.
