listening to episode 201 of Philosophize This. He's talking about kind of Zizek's kind
of ideas on how to resist the, kind of hard to summarise, regardless. He's talking about
how love is a, love, activities like love, falling in love, moving to a new place, having
a child, going skydiving, etc. etc. Are ways, they are activities that have a way of kind
of breaking us out of our habitual ways of being and seeing the world, seeing ourselves
and the world around us. And you can kind of do those activities and come out the other
side seeing the world differently. And that speaks to me of what John Vivekhi
talks about with the idea of kind of breaking frame, disruptive strategies in order to break
a frame and create a new, better, healthier frame basically. And you know, and like have
a relationship between that and insight and flow and all of that stuff. I think they're
under something here. So Zizek talks about these activities as being a total restructuring
of the symbolic way that you see yourself, the symbolic order that you use.
Talked about the three kind of, so I think this is kind of leading to him talking about
door number four but he's previously, like the start of the thing was talking about the
three kind of options that are available to a person in a postmodern subject. And that's
basically burnout and become nihilistic. Hyper obsessed with like fixate on your career and
yourself as a project. And I can't remember what the third one was. And I think all of
this is part of why I am feeling so bleh at the moment kind of thing. And about why I
keep getting this feeling that my hobbies are hollow. Because they are kind of part
of this consumerist thing. I think.
