realised one of the issues, part of, I think, why I have an issue with people with, you
know, this thing I said of, like, blame the 'ism, not the 'ists.
I was walking home, I was thinking about, you know, Holly reading "Bilng Chul Han"
and kind of thinking about how I would, how I could think about, talk about it with her,
you know, and kind of our shared frustrations with capitalism. But then I was thinking about,
like, you know, the difference between us then is that, the difference between us is
that she takes those frustrations and directs them at capitalists, at people. Whereas for
me, I mean, I still get, obviously I still get frustrated by people, but I take the frustrations
and I, for me, they're directed towards the system itself.
They're directed towards capitalism rather than the capitalists.
And I feel like that's a common tendency. People have, our culture has an obsession
with individuality and also has an obsession with, also has an obsession with individualising
things and personalising things. People want to get angry at a person. People want to get
angry at other people. People want to lynch other people and yell and scream at other people.
And my issue with that is that I, I, Jesus. Whoops, had my high beams on this whole time.
My issue with that is, I think we have, I'm not a hard determinist, but I think we have
a lot less. I think our society, our culture is obsessed with free will and choice. Baked
into our culture is this, and so many of our notions is this idea that people can choose,
that we have the choice, we have choices, we can make, choose to do things differently.
And I am sceptical of the degree to which that's the case. I'm not a hard determinist.
I don't think every, like absolutely everything all the time, I mean, I don't think we are
incapable of making any decisions and everything is always entirely determined by every proceeding.
Maybe if you go deep enough it is, but practically I think we can and do still make choices.
But I think, but the thing is we can only, this is, this is the crux. We can only make,
we can only choose between the options if we are choosing at all, which often I don't
think we do. I think, I don't think there's like, well it depends on whether choosing
is conscious or not, because often we don't, we don't choose anything, we just do something,
we just default to doing something and you know that's probably, and I think that's the
case a lot of the time. A lot of the times we don't consciously choose between things,
we just do something based on preferences, like our previous preferences, based on the
habit, based on probably our relevance to realisation machinery and what we, what presents
itself to us. The thing is we can, even if we do are choosing, we can only choose between
the options that present themselves to us. And there is probably always a, I don't have
the term for it yet, but a, for our purposes essentially infinite amount of potential choices
to be made in any, most of them and most of them aren't relevant. You know, the choices
might be scream, you know, spout gobbledygook, like that's an action, that's a thing you
can do, it's a choice you can take, it's something you can do, it's a choice you can make, it's
something you can do in reaction to something, it's a choice, it is a choice, an action you
can take, it's a choice you can make, but you know, the number of choices we can make
in any, in reaction to anything, in any situation is probably for our, it's probably not infinite,
but for our purposes, for our lived practical purposes it might as well be because it's
so vastly large that, you know, it would probably take a lifetime to examine them all. And,
you know, our relevance realisation machinery presents, is what presents a range of options
present themselves to us, or no options present themselves to us and we just do something.
And that's, I think, part of where I'm like, you know, yes, from your, from your perspective
it would be fucking, like, it's infuriating that people do, you know, that rich people
make the choices they do, but maybe from, like, you don't know what their experience
is like. Perhaps from their point of, from their perspective and in what they live and
what they perceive and how they experience things, the options that you want them to
choose don't even present themselves to them. Maybe they do and they discard them or maybe
they do and, like, in the same way that things that you think are probably a good idea but
you just toss out because they're impossible or, you know, it could be very well be entirely
the same. So I have a real problem with blaming people for society's problems. It's difficult
because society is people but it's also more than people. Yeah, it's difficult. I think
that's one of the fundamental difficulties of these things is that we don't really have
a way of talking about or really very well or dealing with that kind of emergence, that
multiple, multilevel-ness of things and the ways things emerge out of, you know, the ways
that society is made up of individual people and their behaviours and their preferences
and their choices but also is greater than them and emerges out of them and then, you
know, affects them. Yeah. Very difficult. Our society, like, we're actually just not
equipped to, I don't think we're equipped to deal with that probably yet as a species
but also just like our, the intellectual history of our ideas is not equipped to handle that.
We are just starting to grapple with that now. We're just starting to grapple with a global
world where, you know, having to actually deal with that scale of things, you know,
that was probably always there. We just never had to deal with it and now in a very short
space of time we're being forced to and we don't have, we're not ready at all. We don't
have the tools for it and our intellectual history hasn't equipped us with it for it.
It's prepared us for, you know, reductionism and focusing on the minute details rather
than the emergent picture. All of this also links into that original kind of worldview
dossier or worldview manuscript I wanted to write of that flash of insight I got from
episode 27 of Awaiting for the Mini Crisis that that is, all of that is intimately, you
know, the fact that options are only, we can only choose from the options that present
themselves to us is intimately tied into the fact that we have to use heuristics to deal
with combinatorial explosion otherwise we cannot function but that also is constantly,
means that we are constantly subjected to being caught up in illusion and making bad
decisions and that's the reason that only certain things present themselves to us.
Things keep kind of going back to that, that central idea, kind of like worldview tunnels
being absolutely necessary.
