to one of the only of David Chapman's podcast episodes. It's his latest one that's come
out today on the 30th of May, 2024, and he's talking about different ways of conceptual,
different analogies for the self that he has used throughout his life. He's been very personal
in kind of going through his personal journey of how he experienced each of them. So he's
got three, he's got like the self as a steam engine, as a mechanical engineering product,
the self as like a tech startup, as like a rational institution, self as conversation,
basically like psychotherapy, and then the last one which hasn't got to yet. He's talking
about the problems with the psychotherapy approach and how it implicitly sees, I think
he's focusing on the rationalist psychotherapies like CBT at the moment, but then he's going
to talk about IFS, and he's talking about the problems with it are that it implicitly
assumes like most of rationalism and cognitive science and things like that, that the self
is made up of thoughts and feelings and things like that, rather than actions and thoughts
and perception, and the way to interface with it and interact with it and fix it is by changing
thoughts and feelings. And he's talking about how that can blind you to just seeing and
doing. He's got a much better way of talking about it, but it struck me that this is heavily
related. I see a very strong connection here with what John Viveki talks about of, with
John Viveki's propositional tyranny, and, fuck's sake, John Viveki's propositional tyranny,
and how we have gotten locked into the propositional way of, you know, thoughts are beliefs, proper
propositions, etc., etc., rather than the non-propositional, non-belief, non-thought
related based things, you know, the ways that we relate to the world, the ways that we do
things, the ways we perceive things, which is actually exactly what those two forms of
knowledge are, doing and perceiving. And then the deeper one, which is kind of like identifying.
Yeah. Strong relationships here. He has a good practical insight too, which is that,
you know, rather than, so he, rather than ruminating and turning inwards and trying to work out,
think through things, rather than ruminating, you know, getting stuck in trying to figure
things out and thinking through things, and just kind of having that degrade and get stuck
there, you know, a bunch of stuff that he talks about to do with it that's much, he
outlines really well, basically says, rather than turning in like that, turning inward
like that, because that stops you from perceiving and doing, he turned outward. And, you know,
he looked at the concrete specifics that were occurring in his life, concrete specifics
in his life and, you know, basically take some action. Something is, anything is better
than getting stuck in rumination. And that's basically where I'm at. I'm stuck in rumination.
I'm stuck in figuring out the best thing to do stops you from doing anything. That's where
I'm at. Like I'm trying to think my way through my feelings about Holly, about what I want
to do next. I'm trying to think my way through, you know, how to write. Like, and those things
are important to an extent as well, like having some kind of system. But I need to be doing
things to see with, like I can't, I can't just think my way through our system and have
it work. Like I need to, you need to do something, try, and then fail and adapt based on that,
based on that, based on that, based on that. And I'm stuck at trying to just get the system,
get the whole thing working for, like get this perfect system before I start doing anything.
You know, think my way through and come to the right decision before I take, I take any
action. Whereas he's saying, turn upwards, look at the concrete specifics of your situation,
take action.
