about why, this is probably going to be very hard to hear because I'm right, driving right
next to, walking right next to a major fucking thoroughfare. We've been thinking about why
I find it so hard to relate to people like Holly and their feelings around things like
capitalism when I sympathise so heavily with the struggles with capitalism, you know, that
I'm constantly struggling with myself. And yeah, I think that's it. And I think my issue
is that the hopelessness and anger, etc, etc, at the system gets metastasised in most, like
so many cases, gets metastasised into incandescent rage, bordering and sometimes hate, and sometimes
hate against particular people, particular people or groups of people, rather than at
the system itself and the system as a whole, and misses that the people that one is raging
at or hates are just as much a part of the system, like everybody is part of the system.
The system has wrapped all of us up in it. And that presents different ways in, with
people on the left, quote unquote left, becoming increasingly skeptical and tired of those
ideas, but people on the left, like Holly, it's rage against men, it's shit like, not
necessarily Holly saying this, but people in the same kind of maybe belief camp or ideological
camp as Holly, you know, rage or hate against men, people on the left, I guess, left leaning
liberal, rage or hate against men, rage or hate against white people, you know, this
like eat the rich, all police are bastards, this kind of stuff. And on the right, it gets
turned, it gets turned into rage against SJWs, rage and hate against SJWs, and it's, you
know, poor city, poor country dollars, poor country dollars, it's rage against, rage and
hate towards people living in cities, and it's always directed at other people rather
than the system as a whole. You know, whoever is, that one thinks is perpetuating the system
or propagating it or holding it up or causing it or in many cases the beliefs about who
is actually directing it. That's my issue. I find it so hard to like stand in, to feel
solidarity with people when they take the same feelings I have, in many ways worse,
and then turn that into hate against other people. It just, it fucking, it, honestly,
it's, it erodes my soul, and it just wears me down constantly. It feels like there's
nobody I can really relate to, basically. And I think, you know, thinking about, I think
that's my issue with, maybe my issue with things like Marxism, where it puts the focus
on class conflict, on conflict between groups of people, rather than on the fact that all
of those people are part of the same system. And talking, you know, talk about revolution,
we have this history of centering the differences between people and, yeah, I have, I think
I have deep philosophical and moral issues with that. Yeah. I can't fucking explain that
to anyone, because it's only kind of like intuition for the moment. I can't really have
an argument to put forward, not that that really fucking matters in the end of the grand
scheme of things. Arguments don't actually matter. Facts don't really matter.
[Cough]
