Remember how you felt. Try to remember how you felt living at Jordan's place for the
week in May. It's...it...
How do I put it into words? The feeling of freedom of living that week, living in a place
so central, so surrounded by...oh god...so surrounded by so many amenities, living...being
so close to work, being in such a nice area, and having the money to actually do things.
And that's the difference between now and this time in Red Hill. When I lived in Red
Hill I had no fucking money. Comparing those things, and compare it to, you know, compare
it to living at home with Mum and Dad, which is the main comparison I have, because that's
where I'm coming from. That sense, that feeling of freedom is intense. But also, Jordan's
place is particularly closer than I've ever been to nice area and nice places to be and
to be around and to live and wander around. That wouldn't solve my problems, but it would.
It's something I want. You know, comparing it to Oxley where, yes, I had...well, actually
I didn't have that much money. I didn't have that much money. I had the freedom of not
living in a home. I wasn't at home. And actually, not living at home has made a big difference.
But also, being in a nice area, a central area, I've had this constant feeling of wanting
to, of not only wanting to, but actually feeling able to just kind of wander and the philosophising
has the desire to do it and the capacity, it feels like the capacity to do it has ramped
up. I think I maybe, I attach some identity to it, that idea of kind of like going wandering
and sitting in cafes and nice places that kind of gets attached to the philosophy. Just
maybe not the best, but I find it very hard to do it. I don't want to do it. I have no
desire to do it living at home in Mum and Dad's place, basically. I have to leave the
house. And the difference between being able to walk out my door and walk to a cafe in
two seconds and having to drive 40 minutes to get to fucking anywhere I would want to
be to do it is enormous. And it's really making me want to go to Melbourne.
And the key thing about that is when I say that, when I'm thinking about Melbourne and
makes me really want to go to Melbourne, I'm not thinking about Holly. Holly isn't entering
into that picture. Holly isn't on my mind. I'm not thinking about being around her or
there. I'm thinking about the experience, replicating that experience I've had here.
Melbourne I think would do, will allow me to do that, particularly if I can keep this
job.
I don't know how much longer I can do this job, but yeah. I think maybe I need to try
going to Melbourne before I go to the UK. I mean I was saying the opposite before, but
there is something holding me back from going to the UK. And Holly's probably part of it,
but these feelings I've had, this feeling of this desire for freedom in this particular
way in this particular context has nothing to do with Holly. Melbourne isn't just about
Holly for me. I can't deny that she's part of it, but it's not just me convincing myself,
coming up with reasons in order to convince myself so that I can go down and be with Holly.
It's not that at all. I'm not trying to convince myself. There are other things drawing me
there. I will probably get down there and love it, but then still want to go to the
UK because I feel called there too and that's okay.
So I think maybe I might, when I see the sleep specialist, I might talk to them about whether
I can get the same thing they're doing with me elsewhere, in Melbourne particularly, for
one thing, and also if I can, yeah, actually that's it, that's the main thing, and then
I know I can get the scoliosis care. I might be able to get the sleep care, and once I've
gotten my teeth done, that's kind of the major stuff. I'm not going to be able to do the
nose surgery for years anyway. I'm not going to be able to do either the nose or jaw surgeries
for years. So yeah, the other thing was how much of a difference being so close to work,
having so little time between work and home, how much of a difference that made in my day,
and how that could be different working from home, but also not at the same time. I'd save
even more time actually. It's just I wouldn't want to be home very much, I think. So yeah,
I'm saying more to think about.
