I've just finished up a session with my therapist. Fuck, she's good. She's a really good therapist
and, like, this is the best therapeutic relationship I've had. I feel really comfortable with her.
She's just really genuine. Really genuine. Like, the fact that she swears, I think, helps
a lot. It makes me feel really comfortable. But we were talking to starting to delve into
the past stuff. And so it looks like I probably-- she was asking-- we talked about mum quite
a lot and then we briefly talked about dad and Jamie. It looks like-- so I basically--
she was basically asking me-- kind of approaching this idea of, like, because of mum's complex
needs-- she was basically saying when you have a really-- when you have a mum with--
a parent with complex needs, like mum definitely did, you-- you start to-- she said there's
kind of, like, the two main things that she was thinking about for me that, as a result
of that, that kind of-- how it could have played out for me is that I either could have-- or
it could be a bit of both-- that mum-- because of the way mum acted, I might have taken on
a-- this kind of feeling that the world is-- the world and other people are not safe. The
world's bad, unsafe, and then, like, I don't-- you don't quite know how to be in the world
because of that. And I think that is, in some ways, true. I think that's probably where
my, you know, deep anxiety and fear about pain and doing things and all that kind of
stuff comes from. And in some ways, I probably am afraid of other people because, you know,
I'm a shy-- I was a very shy person and I've kind of built up, but I've also, at the same
time, also been really caring-- caring about and caring towards people and sympathetic
and empathetic and valuing people. So I've kind of developed more of those kind of skills
over time. And then she said the other way it could go-- other way it could think it
could be or, like, additional way it could be, which she said is less-- like, I see this
less for you. But then when she said it, I was like, no, that's it, was that when you
have a really apparent-- a parent with complex needs, like mum, you tend-- you can kind of
go like, my emotions don't matter as much as other people's. And I was like, yep, that's
it. And we got to this-- I realised we-- well, we kind of, in the conversation, realised
that I have a pattern of my closest-- the closest relationships in my life have been
with people who have complex needs, who are, you know, and like I'll be talking about how
I feel like I'm the one who does most of their work in-- you know, I ask people questions
and I see-- ask how they're going and I check up on them and I care about them, you know,
and I talk to them about their problems and give them advice and stuff. And I haven't
really found much back the other way in my life. And part of the reason for that can
be that, you know, if the people in my life-- like, it's like, they might be-- what was she
saying? She was saying it might be that the people-- basically, if a person has complex
needs, they need care, they don't have as much space for coming back the other way.
And I realised that a lot of the people in my life have been-- particularly my closest
relationships have been with people who have high complex-- like complex needs. They have--
they have-- you know, they don't have as much capacity. They don't have the capacity to
ask me how I'm going, to check up on me, those kinds of things. They're more in survival
mode than I am. And I realised, yeah, like, my best friends,
Jaden and Jeremy, were-- you know, and I kind of almost-- I identified with the role of,
like, the person that people come to talk to. And I valued that. And I valued myself for
that. And we talked about self-sacrifice, you know, how it's like-- that is basically
the example of what happens when you live a life of self-sacrifice. It's catastrophic.
It's calm to you over your life. But yeah, the people in my life I've had the closest
relationships with, Jaden and Jeremy, my best friends, were-- Jaden and J-- both of them
were so with time, but both of them, particularly when they were younger, were deeply troubled
people who had-- who needed help and support, you know. I didn't actually see it at the
time, but like, you know, so many times, me and Jeremy talking about almost falling into
this role of, like, you know, me talking to him being like, "I don't know what I'm doing
with my life," and me kind of, like, talking him through options and stuff like that. Almost
like a guide. I don't think he necessarily-- and I've always kind of worried that I have,
like, taken that on and he didn't want that kind of thing, and it, like, frustrated him.
Yeah, like Jeremy when he was younger. Less-- much-- I think actually much less so now,
and now it's starting to-- I think the relationship's equaling out a bit. I think in some ways he's
doing better than I am. But, you know, he had an abusive stepfather, he had drug issues,
he was an alcoholic, had all of these problems, and I was kind of the person he spoke to about
him. Jared Jaden even more, like, kind of in some ways less problems, but also, like,
also more of a wreck, more of a fucking mess and self-delusional, and came to me for help
more. And then Holly. Holly is a person with very, like, very high support needs. She's
not in-- she has very little independence, and it's not her fault, but she leans on people
when they present themselves as somebody-- when they give her help, she leans on them,
because she needs it. Her life's a fucking mess, and she is struggling to cope constantly.
And I keep falling into the role of the person she can lean on, and she keeps using-- she
keeps falling into the role of being the person leaning on me. She doesn't trust people, she
trusts me, she doesn't trust other people, so she leans on me. And that leads to two-hour
conversations where she's talking at me, and I feel resentful. And it's another reminder
of why our relationship doesn't work. And why I probably need more distance. Why I probably
need to-- I still want to maintain that relationship, but we probably need to, like, go to letters
or something. I just don't know what to do with myself if I'm not going to Melbourne.
Because I don't-- there's part of me that doesn't feel ready to go to the UK, although
maybe if I, like, give up the idea of Holly and start to actually move on, the UK will
just fucking open. Maybe the reason I don't quite feel ready for the UK is because I'm
holding onto Holly. But yeah. That was some really insightful stuff. I'm really glad I'm
seeing this lady. I don't see her for another fucking month now, though. Those are definitely
some patterns that have played out in my life. Another big thing we talked about-- actually
talked about it for like half of the session, the first half, was talking about my low mood
and ways to kind of deal with it. And we talked about basically my homework is she sent me
a list of things to do or like ideas for activities. And I need to-- basically I need to be trying
to like get more joy, get more-- have more things to look forward to, and be getting
more exercise. So on the weekends, I'm going to try and-- I'm going to plan something during
the week, like on a Wednesday, and I plan something to go out and do on the weekends.
So you know, like, even if I don't really care about doing it, I probably need to go
for walks with Jeremy, go for bike rides, that kind of stuff. Even if I struggle to
want to do those things, I probably-- I need to go do them anyway. Because once I start
doing them, I probably will-- and I will love it. And it's what I need. I have to reframe
it as-- it's not about what I want to do in Brisbane. It's about what do I-- it's just--
I need to do things. And what do I want to do? Because I have to do something. And so
even that, it's like, what do I look forward to doing? What do I want to do? And I've just
been focused on like-- I've been focused on rest, seeing friends, and my hobbies. Which
are kind of taking on like an almost-- almost an obsessive like crushing myself with them
edge. There's not really joy or freedom in my life at the moment. Even philosophy has
taken on this kind of like demand of like-- I've used-- I pathologised it and used it
to beat myself with. Like I'm not doing the thing I'm supposed to do with it. It stopped
being something that's joyful and started being something that's a cudgel to beat myself
with. Why I get overwhelmed every time I start listening to videos because I start getting
all these flashes of insight and then that feels good but then I'm like, ugh, I can't
just do that anymore. Now I feel like I can't do that unless I'm going to start writing
things down and actually thinking about stuff. And I struggle so much with that so then I'm
like, ugh, it's too much. And then I just put it-- I push it away. And because I can
only be into one thing at a time, I know like-- I know if I do that I'm going to stop doing
other things but then it's going to be too much overwhelming and I'm not going to be
able to do the other things I care about. Fucking hell.
I'm also realising that I'm not moving on from Holly at all. I'm stuck-- part of the
reason I feel stuck in limbo is because I am stuck in limbo because of where I'm at
with Holly. I haven't moved on from her at all. It's like been a year and we're still
in this-- I'm still in an uncertain, don't know what to do place. I'm in limbo state
with her. And it's because I can't make the decision whether to-- I don't want to cut
contact with her. I've pretty much made that decision. I don't want to do that. But I haven't
made the decision whether to move on from her and reduce contact and be less of a pillar
of support in her life and reduce the level of our relationship and focus on other parts
of my life, focus on other people, be open to other relationships, or whether I want
to go to Melbourne and try again with her. Basically, that's what's happening. So I'm
stuck. I'm stuck in that spot. So I'm not really progressing. That's part of why I feel
like I'm in limbo. Part of the reason I feel like I'm in limbo is because I am in limbo.
The reason for that, that I'm struggling so much, is that-- part of the reason I'm struggling
to let her go is because it's for both of us. It's for me and for her. I'm struggling
to let her go because, in my end, because I love her, I do love her, but I'm also struggling
to let her go for her because I am her main source of support in some ways, the person
she trusts. And I have this internalized. I feel an incredible sense of fear and guilt
and shame every time I think about it. I can be the person she turns to every week to talk
to when she's feeling bad, or just to catch up. I don't know if I can be that anymore
because I can't move on doing that. But that doesn't mean I want to end relationship. I
still want to be there. I still want to be connected to you. I want you to know that
just because things don't necessarily work between us, or because that doesn't mean--
for both of us, I still care about you. I still care about the connection. But also,
I want you to know that just because our relationship-- I want you to have the experience of a relationship
ending or somebody stepping back from the level of thing while still maintaining a connection
with you. It doesn't just end. I don't know if I can be in the position with you I am
at the moment, but I don't want that relationship to end entirely.
So I can't do the phone calls anymore. Maybe that's what I need to get to is I can't do
the phone calls anymore. I need to just-- I am still here. If you lose your house and
you don't have anywhere to go, and you're going to be homeless, and you need somebody
to come and get you, I will be there. In that kind of situation, give me a call. I can't
be your every week advice and emotional support guy. I can be everything has hit the-- like
this shit has completely hit the fan, and I am fucked. Please help me. I will be there.
I will be there in person for you for that. You can come and stay with me. I will drive
down and grab you. I will take a couple-- I'll like some time off work, and I will drive
down and I will pick you up with all your stuff. I will still be there for you for that,
for that level of stuff, but I can't be there for you at just everyday life struggles. At
the level we are now, I need more distance. And for that, the only thing I can think of
is letters. Yeah.
