I'm starting to re-listen back through from beginning to end, awakening from the meaning
crisis. I'm up to, I don't know, the first 10, 15 minutes of episode two where he's talking
about flow and how it involves enhanced capacity for implicit learning. And then he starts
talking about implicit learning and he talks about a study by a guy called Anthony Reba,
I think, give me a sec. A bunch of work done in the 60s by Arthur Reba and a bunch of other
people. Definitely Arthur Reba and a bunch of other people. And he's talking about experiments
where they created basically artificial rules, like rules for artificial, I don't think they
were creating artificial languages but they were creating, they were doing like strings
of letters and there was like rules for how to combine them or something like that and
then they generate strings. And that sounds very similar to statistical learning. And
I'd be very interested to see, especially considering he's calling this implicit learning
and that was one of the strands of research that was related to statistical learning and
was like, they weren't sure if it was the same thing, it was kind of like a really fragmented
area. Yeah. That's interesting. I should look into this guy. Andrew? Arthur Reba. So the
thing that really got me onto it, being statistical learning, is he says Arthur Reba was trying
to work, like trying to learn, like trying to, doing experiments on or studying how people
learn languages. And these are experiments that he did to do that. Yeah. A little bit
later on he's talking about Hogarth's book, Educating Intuition, and he's talking about
how, so Hogarth's talking about how what we call intuition is our, basically our implicit
learning picking up on complex patterns in the environment. And he's, the point that
made me do this, to pick this up and note it, is that he's talking about how, John mentions
that we kind of have two different terms, we use two different terms, but they actually
are the same thing. So basically when intuition is going well, we call it intuition. But when
it's bad, like when it has, when it's either going badly or it has bad connotations or
outcomes, we call it bias. But it's still the same thing. And that feeds into my interests
and thoughts and stuff around worldviews and like our world windows kind of thing, which
has to do with relevant realization and all of that. It relates this to the fact that
there's, that the two kinds of patterns exist in our environment, correlational and causational
patterns. Which he's basically saying, you know, the bigot is picking up on patterns
that are correlational. They're picking up on patterns implicitly, but those patterns
are wrong. They're causational patterns. Or I think it's more complexity to those, there's
more to it than that. I think sometimes they are correct patterns. It's just like, yeah,
it's just, I actually can't remember what the fuck I was going to say. But yeah, this
is further related to the stuff I'm interested in about worldviews and world windows and
L and the necessary necessity of using heuristics and all that kind of stuff. This is another,
I think that moment of insight, I had that kind of started all of this where I was like,
I need to be kinder and more accepting of people's bullshit or the stuff I'm frustrated
about with around politics and, you know, Holly's views and stuff like that. Where I
had that moment where it's like, it's necessary. Like, of course people are going to do that.
This is another thing of that. This is another instance of that. This is more, this is just
that again. Of course that's going to happen. Of course we're going to. When we have to
deal with combinatorial explosion by using heuristics and by simplifying and doing all
the things he talks about, when that's the case, and it's also the case that there are
many, many like probably, you know, an indefinitely large amount of illusory patterns. There are
probably an indefinite amount of patterns and relationships in our world and many, like
a very large amount of them are illusory, like he says, you know. As greenhouse gas
has been going up, piracy has been going down. So, but that doesn't mean we can solve climate
change by bringing back piracy. When there's so many illusory patterns and we are finally
tuned to pick up, implicitly, unconsciously pick up patterns, and there's so many of them
that are illusory and we have to work with this without certainty, of course we're going
to get people's bullshit. The bullshit that I'm constantly frustrated by, like deeply,
deeply frustrated. Not like frustrated isn't the right word. It's like slightly, a little
bit soul destroying for me. It like grinds me down, actually. But yeah, but of course,
of course that's going to happen. So it's, which then kind of lends more strength to my
feelings and thoughts around like being understanding and forgiving of people, which was the whole
point of that manifesto, that of course that we need to be more, that we should be, you
know, that kindness and charity of interpretation, all that is important. The importance of that,
given all of that, to do what he does. This like effortless interweaving of cognitive
science and psychology, that's what this is, this is psychology and psychological experiments.
Effortless interweaving of that and like deep insight and caring about things that actually
matter and philosophy and all of that. I want that. I want to be part of that. I want to
be involved in that. That's what I want to do with psychology. What he's doing, the work
he is doing. I want to contribute to that so fucking badly.
