I'm listening to episode 203 of Philosophize This, the latest episode at the moment. It's
the second part of his series on Mark Fischer's idea of capitalist realism. The first episode
was him talking about neoliberalism, and this episode's him talking about postmodernism
and then kind of bringing them together to say, "This is where we're at." And holy shit
does it like one-hundred-like completely... It really elegantly gives voice to exactly
what I've been feeling. He's just spent the last like 10-15 minutes talking about the
problem I have with current media, basically. That everything is a re-... And he connects
it back to philosophical points. That stuff, things... Fucking hell. Yeah, because of postmodernism,
we are basically stuck with everything... The combination of neoliberalism and the market
fundamentalism of neoliberalism and postmodernism, we are basically stuck with this. Everything
is just a remix. Everything is nostalgia bait. Because nostalgia sells. We're stuck in a
permanent present where everything in the 21st century is 20th century ideas being sold
to you in 4K. This episode perfectly fucking sums up how I feel about, like, basically
modern culture. The exhaustion I feel with it. So I need to listen to this episode again,
and I really need to read Mark Fisher's work. This is a good line. "It's just good business
for artists to sell nostalgia." He says, "Artists selling nostalgia becomes high art in a society
where people can't imagine a better future for themselves." Selling nostalgia becomes
high art when remembering pleasant previous times... I can't remember exactly what he
said. It becomes like the thing to do or a nice thing when people can't imagine a better
future for themselves. Oh boy. He says part of the experience... He talks about... I can't
summarise it, but he's talking about the experience of time and how it becomes blurry, which is
fucking perfect.
