chapter of an audiobook at the moment called "Journey to the Edge of Reason", which is
like a biography of Kurt Gödel. And this first chapter is basically laying out the
context of his life by laying the foundations of the world he lived in, which is basically
talking about the Austro-Hungarian Empire before World War I. And it basically seems
like the epitome of the Belle Époque, of the rationalist systematic mode of society,
where he's talking about how the whole... everything was everything... it was like this golden
age of stability and rationality. And it was the Enlightenment period. It was, I think,
like it came at the end of the... or it was a part of the Enlightenment period, it came
at the end of the Enlightenment period, that the nation was governed by principles of rationality
and order and all this kind of stuff. And it sounds like quite a nice time, to be honest.
But it's also... yeah, I think it... I think that may... this... I kind of want to look
into Austro-Hungary now because this seems like it kind of may be the epitome of exactly
what David Chapman is talking about with the Belle Époque and... not that he talks about
the Belle Époque, but yeah, the Belle Époque and... what's-its-face? And I kind of want
to go read that Europe book that I bought in Melbourne. It seems like this was really
kind of like the peak... I don't know if it was the beginning, but it was like a real
bureaucratisation and that seeing is... when I get home, I'm going to look at the scene
as a state thing because in his this he mentions about how everything was starting to be ordered
and done through rational systems and he mentions tree cutting or lumbering and I wonder if
that's maybe what's-its-face is the author of seeing like a state he's talking about
in that first chapter. Yeah, he's talking about how the Holy Roman Emperor... I think
it's the Holy Roman Emperor, I think it's Joseph II, basically believed that his citizens would
rationally choose to give up identification with race and ethnicity and religion and all
these things and basically identify with the fatherland instead. It's about how at the
turn of the 20th century Austria shared with only one other nation in the world the existence
as an idea rather than as a nation, which was America was the other one, yeah, and all
the symbolism and stuff that came with that, with America. So it kind of sounds to me like
Austria-Hungary might have been the... and Joseph was... like all this stuff was happening
at the same time as the founding fathers. So it kind of seems to me like Austria-Hungary
might have been basically like the European US and think the world might have been very
different if World War II hadn't happened or World War I hadn't happened and Austria-Hungary
just got fucking destroyed. I think that's what happened. I think it got massively weakened
by World War I and then World War II Hitler invaded and annexed it.
