I, um, I was standing at the window, looking out onto the back garden this morning. It's
quite a beautiful morning. Um, that dappled sunlight that I love, soft wind blowing in
the air, rustling the leaves, birds calling in the distance. Um, little pink and white
flowers growing on the peach tree. Um, I was looking out at it, and it struck me as how
beautiful it was. But it also, it felt like there's something missing in me. I thought
about how, how much this used to feel like home, how much the beauty out there used to
impress itself on me. And I don't quite know what the connection is, I don't quite understand
what the connection is, but there's a connection there of to, this doesn't feel like, it doesn't
feel bad, but it doesn't feel like home anymore. And, it doesn't feel like somewhere I want
to be, it doesn't feel like home, it doesn't feel, it feels like where I am rather than
where I want to be. Now I can remember feeling really content with this place, with where
I was, and I realised I've been feeling like that since Holly and I broke up. Because I
came here, when I came here it was just, uh, I was a stop, it was a short holdover before
I moved somewhere else. It was a purpose to being here, it was to save money for a short
amount of time before I moved to Melbourne. And I think it still has that character, and
in some ways I think it's, I think I have been lost and adrift since the end of 2022
and the start of 2023, since the combination of the end of my relationship with Holly and
the things that came with that, of a hopeful future of moving to the UK with her, a very
immediate future of finally leaving Brisbane behind and moving to Melbourne with her, and
a relationship with Holly, and also all the other, and, but also at the same time, like
a separate, well I mean not entirely separate, but fairly separate thing, but also happening
at the same time thing of the kind of like the fizzling out of my future around, with
psychology and the behaviour change stuff. You know, the end of, coming to the end of
2020s, and coming into 2023, it was like the world was opening for me. It was, the cracks
were starting to show, but, you know, it was like I was with somebody I loved, we were
going to move to Melbourne, and the stuff with the degree, and then the stuff with the
degree kind of just fizzled out. I realised I didn't really want to continue, I needed
a break, the behaviour, I didn't really care, like, doing that internship with Everton was
like deeply disappointing in some ways. Because I kind of invested all of my hope for the
future into it. It was like the first step in a more hopeful, a better future, you know,
some solidity, a direction to move in, and it was not that. I was deeply disappointed
in it, and then, yeah, it just kind of fizzled out. All of that, you know, the almost four
years of drive, and you know, purpose and focus I had, and my ideas for the future kind
of just disintegrated, and then the other strand, the more person, the other strand,
with Holly and moving to Melbourne disintegrated, and then I was just left with what exactly,
and that's where I still am in some ways. I like, I'm, I've healed through it much
more than, I've taken steps through it much more than I was then, and it first all happened,
but I'm still very much in, you know, I've healed from the heartbreak a fair amount,
I'm starting to be able to, I'm at the beginning of kind of groping my way forward, basically.
In some ways I'm right back where I was when I got back from Korea, but even deeper in
some ways. Because now I can't see any way forward, whereas before it was like I could
see lots of ways forward and I couldn't decide which one to take. Now it's like I can't
see any ways forward. And other than to move to, other than moving to the UK, which isn't,
it's not quite the same, it's kind of just a, it's not just, I don't know how to put
it. It's really complex stuff, really complicated, layered, but the UK is simultaneously deeply
important, moving to the UK is simultaneously deeply important, but also just to get away
from the feeling of where I am. Part of it's, I mean part of it's just taking an action,
and like it's an action that I need to take, that I want to take, but it's, I know it's
not the action, I guess, I don't know, I can't quite, I don't know. But yeah, it's, I feel
deeply lost and deeply adrift, and this place doesn't feel like home, and it feels like somewhere
I don't, where I just have to be for now rather than where I want to be. And where I want
to be is in the UK, but I also, where I want to be is doing something I care about, and
with a, you know, looking towards the future. That open possibility of the future in something
I care about, that's what I, that's what psychology gave me, and what Melbourne with
Holly gave me, and now I have neither of them, and I know the UK isn't quite the same thing,
because it's, because the other side, the Korea side is so lacking. That's part of why
I can't quite get as excited about it as I was when you know about moving to Melbourne
with Holly, or as I feel, as excited as I feel I should be about moving to the UK. Yeah.
I don't know what to do about any of that, because I can't, there's nothing I can do
about it right now. I have to be here, like I'm doing what I have to do, it just feels,
ugh, it's not like what I feel like I want to do.
