the five of Journey to the Edge of Reason at the moment, the kind of biography of Kurt
Gödel and kind of an explanation of his work. It's long and complicated. I barely fucking
understand it, but he's basically going through what the incompleteness theorem is and what
he actually did, the steps he went through, etc., etc.
It's interesting because it looks like the incompleteness theorem is basically almost,
but not quite, but very similar to the Liar's Paradox, which is like a Cretan saying all
Cretans are liars. The author says, which is the Liar's Paradox is the paradox that
Russell discovered, or I'm not sure if he actually discovered it, but he talks about,
which was like a massive fucking problem for him. The author here is talking about how
the incompleteness theorem sidesteps that issue because the proposition A and the proposition
not A, which is the negation of A, can't both be true, or can't both be false. One has to
be true, one has to be false. They can't both be true or false. But they can both be unprovable.
So he basically changes out the concept of truth for provability. So A and not A can
both be unprovable. And he says that's a problem because if regardless of whether, they can
be unprovable, they can both be unprovable regardless of whether they are true or false.
And he says that's a problem because if a, if one of them is true, I actually can't fucking
remember, this still doesn't make sense, hold on, I'm just going to play what he says.
This statement is unprovable is trouble. If true, it is itself an instance of a true but
unprovable proposition. But if it is false, that means it can be derived from the axioms
of the system and is thus an instance of a false but provable statement, which is arguably
even worse. Good luck. So a proposition that says this proposition is unprovable is a problem
because if it's, if it's, if that, if, if the statement this, this, this proposition
is unprovable is, is true, then it's, it's, that means it's unprovable. And if it's false,
it means it is provable but it's false, which means you can prove, the whole point is that,
the whole point of all of that is, of all of this, of what they were trying to do is
that it basically means you can, you can assert without, you can, you can prove, you can show,
you know, so you can have certainty, you can get to the point of supposedly having certainty
that a false statement is true, I think. So it's a fucking problem, basically.
I'm listening to a bit more of chapter five, yeah, chapter five, and he's talking about
how around almost, like just, basically just after he did his, or not very long after he
did his, published his incompleteness theorems, that's when Post and Turing both independently
published the model of a formal system, which is what led to, which is basically the Turing
computer. And he's basically saying that the, like, undecidability, or the uncomputability
that Turing showed is basically an extension of, it's like directly connected, it's basically
just, not just, but it's basically him taking Gödel's thing and showing it in a, I don't
understand this enough to say, to say it properly, but it sounds like basically, it sounds like
basically Turing's incomputability is essentially an extension of Gödel's incompleteness theorem.
This is interesting, so Gödel's takeaway from his own theorem was that maths is inexhaustible.
There will always be some new mathematical truth to discover. That's a pretty big fucking,
like, that's a pretty big fucking thing, and that's a, oh Jesus, and that's a, I don't
think that person's fucking tie is dead. That's a pretty, like, that feels pretty closely
related to the idea of, like, the kind of infinite nature of reality, the inexhaustible
nature of reality.
