Journey to the Edge of Reason, the life of Kurt Gödel.
And I'm up to chapter 4, right near the end.
It's like the last section, basically.
And he's talking about, Kurt Gödel talking about the rules of logic.
And I'm just going to play what it says.
[
...noted. For example, if we prove A, and also that A implies B, we're entitled to conclude B without having to even bother about what A and B actually stand for.
The rules are purely formal, Gödel noted. They could be applied by someone who knew nothing about the meaning of the symbols.
One could even easily devise a machine which would give you as many correct consequences of the axioms as you like.
Gödel's mentioning a machine.
So, that's what computers do.
Computers are purely formal systems.
They don't care about, they don't have any grasp of, they don't need.
Not only do they not need, they are incapable of grasping, or understanding, or interacting with meaning.
I think, I'm assuming this is the case, and I think that's probably right.
They are purely formal. They are, they are, they do proofs.
They are just constantly proving things.
And they don't need to, you know, A or B, therefore A.
Well, like, what did you, I can never fucking remember the terminology they used, but what it just said.
But that's, um...
That's, uh, what am I talking about?
Yeah.
The computer doesn't need to understand, it doesn't need to know the meaning of anything.
Computers do not interact with meaning at all.
They produce meaning, which we have to interpret, but the computer itself doesn't have to interact with meaning.
We care about the meaning that comes out of it.
You know, this button means click here, do this.
So we are things that are, that exist in, we require meaning to do anything.
We can't operate formally.
We can use formal thinking to do things.
Yeah, and that's, if logic is the paradigm of, if logic is the paradigm of, um, of rationality, as traditionally conceived,
then rationality is bereft of meaning.
Rationality is literally meaningless.
This is all connected to, previously before this, they were talking, he was talking about Hilbert's work with, um, fuck, what's it called?
I can't remember his branch, and Brouwer's, his nemesis Brouwer, and his work on intuitionism in mathematics, or also known as constructivism.
And that led on to, to this stuff here that I've just been noting on.
So it's probably worth listening to that again, because it's like tied up with all the foundational stuff.
