I think this is an important line that she says. Still the same day, still moments after
what I was talking about previously, but still listening to Chapter 3, but this I think is
really important.
"A very sense of a spiritual and cultural collapse whose eminence had been evident to
the Viennese thinkers even while the Habsburg dynasty tottered on intensified the felt need
for the search for new foundations. The collective consciousness of the city's most conscious
citizens was suffused with a sort of nervous intensity. The rash of ideas erupted like
the symptomatology of disease genius."
So we...
Yeah, that. That's important. It was kind of like... In Vienna you had basically all
of these incredible, like these intellectual titans basically appearing and trying to deal
with the spiritual and intellectual collapse and trying to respond to that. It's really
interesting because I mean, related to this, probably the spiritual collapse side of things,
she talks about how mentioned offhandedly that Zionism actually appeared in the Vienna
of this time. Which, in a particular person...
Hold on.
"Not only the birthplace of Zionism in the figure of Theodor Herzl, but also the..."
Theodor Herzl, the birth of Zionism in the Vienna of this time. Really interesting. What
an interesting place. It's another place like the Paris of the... The existentialist Paris
of the 50s, the Vienna of the post-World War I period of the 20s and 30s is an incredibly
interesting place. I really want to look more into it. Like I read about the existentialist
cafe and you know, I want to look more into that, into Vienna of that time and then other
instances of the same kind of thing. Because that's what I want to be. She says it's...
This Nazism appeared there as well, which is what provoked Zionism. It's where Sigmund
Freud did his work. Like, fucking hell. Aetonal music apparently appeared there. Apparently
the Viennese secessionists, secessionist artists who were... A hall was built for them that
was partly paid for by Wittgenstein's father. I think Wittgenstein was probably... I think
he was born in Vienna. I think fucking... Bloody Hitler might have gone to university
in Vienna. She says some architect thought about basically what sounds like the beginnings
of modernist architecture, where form was determined by function. So it kind of sounds
like modernism was almost born there. It seems that some of this might be basically the avant-garde,
which I should look more into. Because that may be related in some ways to what I am interested
in. It would be like this next step I want to take. She's talking about how the kind
of thread that bound all of these Viennese areas together was a particular... One journalist,
something Klaus, who was the editor and main writer of a satirical journal called The Torch.
And he was hyper... He was really, really focused on language and critiquing people's
use of language, kind of, and a lot more. And apparently, though he wasn't a philosopher,
he heavily influenced the Viennese philosophers, and then because through them, the rest of
philosophy. That focus on language is very visible in analytic philosophy. Wittgenstein
was a devoted reader of The Torch, and apparently his ideas that intellectual sloppiness were
not only an offence against truth, but against morality, apparently had a big influence on
the other Viennese thinkers of his time. Apparently, because of this, a sense of moral urgency
underlay their discussions of... Their intellectual and artistic discussions. Which I think kind
of is the same with some of the stuff that's happening now. And this is one of the things
I love, what I'm drawn to and what I want, is that she says this intellectual culture
was on display, was on public display because a lot of it happened in the Viennese coffeehouses
and cafes. And to God, that's what I want. That's part of why I'm drawn to cafes. The
reason this happened is because of the housing crisis and the generally just shitty conditions
of housing in Vienna at the time, where things weren't properly heated. A lot of people preferred
to spend their time out of the house, away from the house, in cafes because there were
better conditions there basically than at home. And it's interesting because it's like,
that's probably not the case here in the world anymore because there's this sense of that,
this left over sense around cafes of that being the case, of it being a place for artists
and philosophers and illiterate to hang out and to spend their time and to hash it and
to do their cultural work there. But it's like that, cafes don't actually live up to
that anymore because that doesn't happen, partly because they're fucking expensive.
They're not places you can go to kind of get away from the world or from the shitty conditions
of your home. They're like super bourgeoisie, fancy, expensive places to be now, which I
kind of love as well. But yeah, I don't know. I think that's part of why I'm so drawn to
those kinds of things, because of that intellectual haze that still surrounds them because of
Vienna and Paris. Like a lot of things that we're left with these days, it's kind of like
an artefact of the past that no longer exists. You kind of get glimpses of it, like that
tracks and postmodernity thing, the guy who runs that talks about the importance to him
of a particular, I think it's like a cafe, an Italian place. So, like it maybe still
exists but you have to find the right ones perhaps. But it's also again like an over-abundance
problem where there's cafes every fucking two feet and everybody goes to them. So, it's
like does that still exist anymore or has it been kind of diluted? Kind of why I'm drawn
to the idea and like what ideas of what Holly was talking about of opening a particular
kind of cafe that caters to that, that tries to bring that back. It's like a cafe that
kind of tries to bring back the salon essentially. An intellectual cafe, it's not just a cafe
to go and sit with your friends and have some food and talk about shit. Like it's a place
that hosts and harbours intellectual stuff. She's saying that part of what influenced
who kind of went where, like the mathematicians didn't actually go to the same cafes as the
artists and stuff. The part of reason for that was because who else was there and because
of who was where, who else was there was why people would go to places but also the selection
of like periodicals and newspapers and things like that that were there. And apparently
a lot of these, a lot of the kind of intellectual life of Vienna, I probably can't hear this
at all, a lot of the intellectual life of Vienna was also kind of organised into circles which
were like basically weekly discussion groups that were organised around the leading intellectuals
of the era. And I think that's an important part too. That's part of why I want to be
part of discussion groups. That's why the salon is important to me etc. etc. This is
bringing together, again the salon, something I've cared about for so long, that's why
all of this kind of stuff is so important to me. There was lots of these different kind
of circles and discussion groups. A lot of them were about socialism, there was one focused
on a particular guy that was about Kant, there was a bunch that were about the different
factions of psychoanalytic psychology, a bunch that were focused on Leo Tolstoy etc. and
a lot of them mutually intersected and I think that's the important part too. That's what
I want is like, that's an important feature of the kind of thing I'm looking for where
it's not just that there's like a discussion group, there's a lot of discussion groups
that are mutually kind of interact. This is what David Chapman talks about as a scene
and what other people have talked about as a scenius, genius of a scene. I need to look
more into that I think.
