Driving through Yass at the moment, out to the north, the last day of my trip down to
Melbourne from Brisbane. I stopped in Canberra yesterday and well, like spent a day in Canberra
over two nights, two nights one day. I'm now heading from Canberra down to Melbourne. I've
headed up north from Canberra through Yass back to the Hume Highway. I'm driving through
the Yass Valley and now currently in Yass. Going to leave very soon. It's weird, it's
like normally, I don't know about normally, I can tell that this is a place where quote
unquote normally I would be like gushing about it. But on this whole trip I've just felt
nothing but almost scorn everywhere I've gone. I've just been like eh, I don't care about
any of this stuff. In some ways it is, I'm thinking myself and this is kind of true,
nowhere I've seen on this trip has been as nice as just like Malayne and Montville. But
in some ways like this is beautiful in its own way. And it's like quite ideal actually
around here. It's rolling plains and yeah, for some reason on this trip I just, there's
been a whole bunch of stuff and particularly yesterday that I've just like, I basically
haven't been excited on this trip until I pulled into Canberra. And that night arriving in
Canberra I was quite excited and like wandering around Civic at night was quite cool and I
was feeling pretty like yeah, this is like super awesome. I was thinking maybe I'm just
a city boy, maybe more of a city boy than I thought, maybe I just don't like the countryside
and I only get excited when I'm in cities maybe because I've only ever travelled in cities.
But then the next day, yesterday when I woke up and spent the day in Canberra I was also
like man, this is shit. Glad we left, it's depressing, it's brown, I hate it. So this
whole trip I've just been really, I don't know, like unable to connect with what I feel
like I would, feelings I would normally be having in these kinds of situations. There's
no excitement. Normally I'd be like ah, this is, you know, all this stuff's beautiful.
And I haven't felt any of that and I've in fact felt the opposite. I felt like kind of
depressed and like quite sad and down on myself that I haven't been able to feel excitement.
And I've just kind of felt almost scorned for pretty much everywhere I've been. It's
kind of like, I don't know, it's been a bit difficult to be honest. I've kind of interpreted
it as meaning I'm really, really super ready to leave Australia and it's time for me to
go and that maybe if I go overseas and then come back and do this I'd see this and be
like ah yeah this is really nice. But at the moment everything is just like a pale reflection
of Europe. I don't know.
