of Journey to the Edge of Reason. This is in the first 10 minutes or so, and he's talking
about the relationship between Goethe's incomplete theorem. This is during a talk that Goethe
gave in, actually the last talk he gave, last public lecture he gave in Providence. I can't
remember what, it's like the something talks, I can't remember. But he's making links between
philosophy of mathematics and what mathematics is. He's kind of like rebutting the idea that
mathematics is purely human invention. Between that, the human mind and his incompleteness
theorems. So I'm going to just play a bit of this because I think it's some really important
stuff.
His incompleteness theorems prove that no finite process of inference from axioms within
a well-defined system can capture all of mathematics. But that, Goethe pointed out, leads to an
interesting either/or choice. Either the human mind can perceive evident axioms of mathematics
that can never be reduced to a finite rule, which means the human mind infinitely surpasses
the powers of any finite machine, or there exists problems that are not merely undecidable
within a specific formal system, but that are absolutely undecidable. Both choices point
to a conclusion decidedly opposed to materialistic philosophy, Goethe observed. If the mind is
not a machine, then the human spirit cannot be reduced to the mechanistic operation of
the brain with its finite collection of working parts consisting of neurons and their interconnections.
If however the mind is nothing but a calculating machine, then it is subject to the limitations
of the incompleteness theorem, which leads to the thorny fact that numbers possess at
least some properties that are beyond the power of the human mind to establish. So this
alternative seems to imply that mathematical objects and facts, or at least something in
them, exist objectively and independently of our mental acts and decisions. That is to
say some form or other of Platonism or realism as to the mathematical object.
Well that is like big stuff. I have to like go through that and listen to that multiple
times I think. I think I really need to listen to that talk of his Providence talk. But one
of the big things from that is if the mind is, there was a bunch of things in there,
the two alternatives are both quite noteworthy. The first one I can't quite remember, I have
to go back and listen to it. But the second one, that if the mind is a computer, so essentially
either the mind is not like a computer, in which case it's way be like infinitely greater
than, it can do things that computers can't because it can, either there are things that
are knowable to the, mathematical things that are knowable to the human mind that are undecidable
by computers, I think is what he's saying, because the human mind doesn't operate like
a computer, it is not mechanistic, which means it's infinitely more powerful than a computer.
Or if it does operate like a computer, if it is mechanistic, if it is a calculatory,
then it's, the human mind is subject to the incompleteness theorem. There are things that
are unknowable and uncomputable within the human mind, which means there are mathematical
truths which we can never know, basically. That's quite a huge thing. That's quite a
massive outcome. And I really would like to look into that.
Listening to, still listening to chapter 9, this is now towards the end of the chapter,
it's talking about Gödel's letter, last letter to John von Neumann, who died, he was basically
dying, and Gödel sent him a letter, it was the last letter he sent to him, basically
saying, "I think you're going to get better", and then presenting a logic puzzle to him,
and apparently that, that, that what he's presenting to Neumann in the letter is essentially,
was basically the first presentation of the P versus NP problem, which, I'm just going
to play what it says about it.
...questions of computer science. Gödel's letter to his dying colleague was apparently
the very first formulation of the so-called P versus NP problem, which offered a striking
analogy of his incompleteness theorem to the field of computer science.
So there's more here that I'm going to listen to and then maybe play back. But he's making
a direct thing there between the incompleteness theorems and the P versus NP problem. I'm
going to play like a solid min or two of stuff from this because it lays out basically what
the NP, P versus NP problem is in a really good way.
...serious illness. In his last letter to von Neumann, he expressed blithe confidence
in his friend's imminent and complete recovery before going on to pose what would be one
of the most fundamental questions of computer science. Gödel's letter to his dying colleague
was apparently the very first formulation of the so-called P versus NP problem, which
offered a striking analogy of his incompleteness theorem to the field of computing.
P is the set of problems easy to solve, for example, multiplication and addition. NP is
the set of problems for which an efficient algorithm exists for checking a given solution,
but finding the solution may or may not be easy, such as factoring a large number, solving
a Sudoku puzzle, or discovering a proof for a formula.
Gödel pointed out that one could readily build a machine that works through every possible
series of proof steps to discover whether a proof of N steps exists for a given formula.
The crucial question is how rapidly the time required for the calculation increases as
N gets larger. If it grows slowly, linearly, or even as a square of N, then in principle
every problem that is easily checked, NP, is also easily solved, P. If it grows exponentially,
however, that means there will be a set of verifiable but, as a practical matter, forever
uncomputable problems, just as his incompleteness theorem showed there are true but undecidable
propositions within formal mathematical systems. The answer remains open to this day. As the
philosopher Willi Fried Zeig observed, in the
That last bit about what the philosopher says is, I just kept it playing too long, ignore
it, but yeah, that's a really good explanation of P vs NP. And also, like, fucking hell,
Gödel came up with the incompleteness theorems which were like, fucking enormously impactful
and important, and it was the first to per- first we have having written down as having
proposed the P vs NP problem. What a fucking genius.
