So I realise now that I need to do this as a separate thing
to what I was doing previously.
But yeah, following on from the end of that last recording,
that's what I've been looking for in all,
I've been gesturing towards and kind of stumbling around
in the dark trying to get to that,
to being part of that conversation.
That's why I wanna live where I wanna live.
That's why I wanna leave Australia.
That's definitely why I wanna leave Brisbane
'cause that's definitely not happening in Brisbane.
And honestly, I don't think it's happening in Australia at all.
It's part of why I've attracted to Melbourne
because I'm not sure the scientific
and philosophical stuff's happening there,
but the artistic, I feel I'm drawn towards the artistic
and literary side of things in Melbourne.
And I think it's maybe difficult
because it was more possible for there to be a place
where that's happening previously
because the world was smaller
and there was less people doing this,
whereas now it's just this enormous fire hose all the time.
So it's kinda like, how can it be happening
in any one place and how can anyone be hooked into it,
basically, when it's just this enormous fractured
flood of information all the time?
That's kinda why I'm nostalgic for a time
well before I was born.
But that's what I need.
That's what I want to be out of my life going forward.
That's where I want to move towards.
I just don't know how to find it.
First step is to move to the UK.
And I'm kinda just like tend towards thinking
that it probably happens in these enormous metropolises
like Paris, like London, like Vienna, like New York,
which is why I want to live there.
So I guess I maybe need to look into which metropolises
have this kind of critical mass of research institutes
and organisations and communities and literary
and those kind of communities
and where are the places that have those
and go there, basically.
Basically, I want to be living in the Paris
of the existentialists or the Vienna of Gödel's youth.
Basically, that's what I'm getting to.
And these are the places like Vienna of the Gödel's youth.
Basically, that and Oxford, actually maybe Cambridge,
either Oxford or Cambridge, pre-World War II Oxford
and Cambridge, those places basically almost created
the modern world we live in like computers.
The digital world arose out of almost those two places.
Von Neumann, almost modern economics,
neoliberal economics, computing.
Almost everything to do with computing
arose out of those places like
Von Neumann, Gödel, church,
and what's his name, Turing,
where the fundamental figures of those.
And then I guess Princeton.
That's like computing, that's a lot of modern economics,
that's fucking everything.
That's so much of philosophy
that underlies the world we live in today,
just like so much.
And I feel like a lot of that stuff's kind of,
but that fundamental work is now kind of like
fading into the background.
In the 20th century, Albert Einstein was a
a fucking,
a Albert Einstein in the 20th century.
This is the state of things.
Albert Einstein was a celebrity,
was like one of the major celebrities of the 20th century.
The 21st century major celebrities are like,
well you know, public figures are like
Mark Zuckerberg and Elon Musk,
who have no fucking philosophical grounding,
no intellectual basis in anything,
they're just rich and have consumed the ideas of,
with and applied them at mass scale in the world
with no rigor, no understanding of what they're fucking doing.
And things like philosophy and science
have faded into the background.
God, I kind of wish I lived in the 20th century.
First century's a fucking mess.
