I don't know if I was excited so much as just, I don't know, I was positive. I was in a positive
frame of mind about coming down to Melbourne before I actually started the trip. It felt
like life was progressing, things were coming together, the future was happening, I was
moving forward. I was getting the things I wanted, things I wanted to do were happening.
I was in some ways excited, yeah I was. In some ways I was excited about coming down
to Melbourne. And now, I mean I'm not even in Melbourne yet so I maybe give it time but
I'm just, now I'm kind of just anxious and worried about living with Holly. I'm depressed,
I'm feeling depressed, I'm feeling like maybe this was a bad idea. This trip down has kind
of just made me want to leave Australia but also at the same time like, kind of be like
well at the same time am I going to feel any different over there. I've had a very negative
turn of mind after feeling quite positive on the way, on the lead up to this. So yeah,
I don't know. The stuff I was talking about beforehand in my B folder recordings today
I think are probably going to make me feel better about being in Melbourne because I
feel like it's the kind of place where I can do those things more than Brisbane. Especially
now that I haven't brought my computer and I'm really glad I didn't bring my computer.
I want to join philosophy groups while I'm down here and yeah. I think I'm going to be
disappointed at the same time too because I'm looking for that to be part of that conversation
and I'm not going to get it here. It's probably not really going to be any different from
doing it in fucking Brisbane to be honest but the intellectual atmosphere and the artistic
atmosphere of Melbourne I think is going to help. Plus the fact I'm in a new place, plus
the fact I'm not around my parents, plus the fact I've got space and time to myself and
three days off a week, plus the fact that I'm away from my computer, I don't have my
other hobbies, etc etc. Which they really are a distraction. It's hard because I love them
and I want to take part in them but they are a distraction from what feels like the important
work of my life. I'm not really sure what to do about that because I don't want to give
them up but they do kind of really take me over and stop me from doing this stuff alongside
other things like tiredness and just the difficulty of it and finding sometimes I just don't want
to think about things. I really don't want though my time in Melbourne to be about Holly
and for her and things with her to take over my time and my mental space. I really want
my time in Melbourne to be for me. I have to remember that. I really, really have to
remember that this is about me coming down to Melbourne. I know it's about me. I know
I'm doing this about me. For me it's got nothing to do with Holly but it's primarily about me.
I need to remember that while I'm here and living with her. I need to remember I need
to not get swept up into our bullshit basically. I'm quite worried about that happening basically.
I want to maintain that distance that I've had. Basically I'm not going to get... This
is going to give me the moving forward and being at a better place feeling but it's not
going to give me the distance from Holly feeling. Brisbane has the distance from Holly but not
the moving forward and not being stagnant and moving towards my future feeling. Melbourne
has the moving towards kind of has the being away and moving towards my future feeling
but doesn't have the distance from Holly. To get both of them I need to go to the UK.
That's the real... And I know that's the next step. I need to keep that in mind.
Thank you.
