So I finished the Journey to the Edge of Reason book and I'm now listening to, I think it's
called Just Incompleteness Theorem. It's another book about Gödel. I'm listening to the first
chapter and this is a really important, like two of the fucking, like one of the greatest
titans, arguably the biggest, like the biggest modern titan of physics and the biggest modern,
one of the biggest modern titans of logic and mathematics. Both had this particular
thing to say which I think is really important.
"It is thinkable at all, primitive and muddled. The friendship each shared, the sort of mathematics
that would have broader philosophical implications, technical work to shed metal light. Gödel
in fact had acquired the ambition, while still an undergraduate at the University of Vienna,
of devoting himself only to the sort of mathematics that would have broader philosophical implications.
This is a truly daunting goal and in some sense historically ambitious and one of the
most astounding aspects of his story is that he managed to achieve it. This daunting ambition
which he preserved throughout his life may have limited how much he did but it also determined
that whatever he did was profound. Einstein, though not quite so strict with himself as
Gödel, still shared the conviction that truly good science always keeps the larger philosophical
questions in view. Science without epistemology is, in so far as it is thinkable at all, primitive
and muddled."
Both of them were devoted to doing their work with the larger philosophical questions
in mind which is something that very at odds with I think how current science is done.
Chapter 2, he's not outright saying it but he can't, well she because the authors are
she I'm just saying he because it's a dude reading, doing the audiobook. It kind of seems
like that he's saying it that at how far in? At about six to seven minutes in that part
of the reason that Einstein and Gödel had such a strong friendship was that because
they were basically almost like outcasts in their fields despite the fact like he's basically
saying like they both had absolutely like cataclysmically large huge contributions but
their contributions were kind of like you would think that the fields would have to
completely readjust themselves to deal with those but I think he's kind of maybe saying
the field that didn't readjust themselves around those enormous results and they were
intellectual exiles because their ideas were completely at odds with everybody else in
their fields basically.
Interesting, so he's talking about how so Heisenberg, Gödel's incompleteness theorems,
he's basically talking about how like subjective like, fuck it I'm just going to play what
he's saying.
Heisenberg's incompleteness theorems, Einstein's relativity theories, Heisenberg's uncertainty
principle, the very names are tantalizingly suggestive, seeming to inject the softer human
element into the hard sciences, seeming even to suggest that the human element prevails
over those severely precise systems, mathematics and theoretical physics, smudging them over
with our very own vagueness and subjectivity.
The embrace of subjectivity over objectivity, of the nothing is but thinking makes it so,
or man is the measure of all things, modes of reasoning, is a decided even dominant strain
of thought in the 20th century's intellectual and cultural life.
The work of Gödel and Einstein, acknowledged by all as revolutionary and dubbed with those
suggestive names, is commonly grouped together with Heisenberg's uncertainty principle as
among the most compelling reasons modern thought has given us to reject the myth of objectivity.
This interpretation.
So those three are in some ways almost the pillar of the turn to subjectivity and the
rejection of objectivity that's kind of prevalent in postmodernism, because that's what he's
talking about.
He referenced postmodernism multiple times earlier when he's talking about that turn
towards the rejection of objectivity, the myth of objectivity in the thought and culture
of the 20th century.
He's talking about postmodernism.
Which is like, it kind of seems like these massive things happened and then we kind of
have just been, everything since then's kind of just been trying to deal with them.
Like Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, Gödel's incompleteness theorems and Einstein's relativity
all kind of happened very similar sorts of time in the early 20th century, and then the
next hundred years has basically just been like, how do we deal with that?
And kind of just all this fracturing and screaming and all these people saying, scientists and
the stuff saying all these postmodernists are just taking these ideas and using them
to prop up their faulty ideas.
Yeah, it's just those three things seem to be, and quantum mechanics, which I guess is
basically Heisenberg's, that's what Heisenberg's uncertainty principle is, it's part of quantum,
seem to kind of be at the core of the issues that we're dealing with at the moment, which
intellectual issues we're dealing with at the moment, which is exactly what David Chapman
talks about in his Collapse of Rational Certainty.
That's literally exactly what he's talking about.
The incompleteness theorem with the addition of Cantor's discovery of infinite, of like
different sized infinities and non-Euclidean geometry, that's literally like the things
that caused the collapse of rational certainty, which put us where we are now.
And we haven't really progressed past that, which I guess is what metamodernism is about.
It's trying to take that next step about, yeah.
So a bit further along, probably towards the end of this second chapter, he's talking about
how the reason that Gödel and Einstein were set apart from everybody else and why they
were so close together is because everybody else was making this turn towards subjectivism,
whereas they actually, and everybody was using their theories as evidence of that, whereas
they understood them as the opposite.
They understood them as evidence for an objective reality.
I want to give quite an interesting explanation of what is actually happening in Einstein's
relativity and how it's about frames of reference, but that those frames of reference don't have
to be human, they can be fucking anything.
You'll have to listen to that section at, I'll find out at what point.
At 17 minutes.
Interestingly, talking about how, kind of like, not equating but drawing links between
postmodernism and this privileging of the subjective and the kind of like putting humanity
back at the centre of existence as we were in the kind of like the religious periods.
And the author is basically saying Einstein's general relativity doesn't do that, it does
the opposite, basically.
It doesn't put us back in the centre of things.
Interesting.
So Einstein explicitly identifies his belief in an objective external reality that he ref
calls, that he, in his autobiography called Out Yonder, he explicitly references his belief
in that as the spiritual centre of his life and his science.
This is really interesting, so this is basically like, I think maybe reading from his autobiography.
Whatever this is, it's Einstein talking and it actually kind of aligns with John Verbecky
a bit.
Let me rewind and play it.
With his typical self mocking good humour for the Fest Schrift that P.A. Schilpp edited
in honour of the physicist's 70th birthday, he explicitly identifies his belief in this
reality as the spiritual centre of his life as a scientist.
It is quite clear to me that the religious paradise of youth, which was thus lost, was
a first attempt to free myself from the chains of the merely personal, from an existence
which is dominated by wishes, hopes and primitive feelings.
Out yonder there was this huge world which exists independently of us human beings and
which stands before us like a great eternal riddle, at least partially accessible to our
inspection and thinking.
Interesting.
So that sounds a lot to me like reality, what John Verbecky talks about, of the inexhaustible
nature of reality.
That it's separate from us and that it's inexhaustible, which kind of conforms with my ideas, which
is really just an extension, like building on, based on Verbecky's work, what I've learnt
of basically the infinite complexity of reality.
That there is this infinitely, this kind of, like, which is, you know, that is the finitude
of the person, of the individual, of the humans, against the infinite nature, infinite, the
infinite inexhaustibility of existence.
So maybe Einstein's thought kind of aligns a bit with what I'm already, like the directions
I'm thinking in.
Yeah, interesting.
So he's basically, he's saying, he's talking about how, um, how, um, Einstein's ideas were
basically at odds with all of the other physicists of the time.
So I'm going to play a section here.
And I'm going to play a section here.
So, I'm going to play a section here.
So, I'm going to play a section here.
So, I'm going to play a section here.
So, I'm going to play a section here.
So, I'm going to play a section here.
So, I'm going to play a section here.
So, I'm going to play a section here.
So, I'm going to play a section here.
So, I'm going to play a section here.
So, I'm going to play a section here.
So, I'm going to play a section here.
So, I'm going to play a section here.
So, I'm going to play a section here.
So, I'm going to play a section here.
So, I'm going to play a section here.
So, I'm going to play a section here.
So, I'm going to play a section here.
(Video)
Interesting.
Really interesting.
I had a thought there, but it's kind of faded.
But, yeah, so like...
But, yeah, so like...
Fucking...
So...
I probably need to have my lights on.
Yeah.
The Copenhagen interpretation of quantum physics.
And he basically took...
And was saying previously that that is kind of used as almost the basis of the postmodern turn.
Saying that...
He explicitly links the positivism he's talking about of those...
Like the three leading proponents of the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics.
Which he was saying is...
It's positivism.
He explicitly links that with the positivism of the Vienna Circle.
Kind of interesting that this like...
Hyper...
Rationalist...
Well, because they're both kind of hyper...
Like...
Yeah, I don't know.
This is about positivism.
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
[Reading]
