So I'm listening to the third chapter of Incompleteness, the second book I'm listening to about Kurt
Gödel, the one by, this is the one I've been talking about the previous tracks, which I
found out is written by the author is Rebecca Goldstein, who I found out is Steven Pinker's
wife, which makes sense now why she's, I mean, kind of makes sense why she's so hard on post-Mondasim.
I had such an accident with it. But, so she's kind of gone back in the stone to talk about
Kurt Gödel's childhood, and is just as like a side as part of it, talks about how she
basically offhandedly says Kurt Gödel, which does seem to be kind of like the thing that
people say, but offhandedly says that Gödel is the successor to Aristotle, and then talks
about how Aristotle is commonly seen as the father of logic, because he realised that,
and this is what she says, something like some words are logically relevant and some
are not, and the logically irrelevant ones can be dispensed with by replacing them with
variables, like the Stoxylogism, "All men are mortal, Socrates is a man, therefore Socrates
is a mortal." She's like, that specific one is just an instantiation of the general pattern
of if all x's are y, if all a's are y and b is an a, b must be y, which she says is like
a move towards generality and therefore a science of logic. There's a whole bunch of
things that were kind of cropped up for me in there, and then she talks about how Aristotle
kind of like over applied that, generalised that too much, and thought that all deduction
is just syllogism, which is that. Which was basically what was seen as the case for like
2000 years almost until the 19th century with Gottlob Freak, who then expanded logic a great
deal. Man, it's really nice down here. So green-ish,
compared to comparatively. And then, yeah, so a bunch of stuff to think about in there,
but the thing that I'm kind of trying to get to with this is the Philippi's having is like,
so variables are meaningless. Socrates, she says you can replace, Socrates, in that syllogism
you can replace mortal, man and Socrates with a, b and y. a, y and b. Socrates, and my thoughts
are man, mortal and Socrates are all meaningful things. Those are meaningful. x, y and b are
meaningless. That's their power. It's what allows it to be general. But does the statement
– so the statement, if all men are mortal and Socrates is a man, therefore Socrates must
be mortal, that's meaningful. But is the – and man, mortal, Socrates is each meaningful.
And x – a, b and y are each meaningless, but is the statement, if all a's are y and
b is an a, then b must be y, is that statement meaningless? Because it's telling you the
– oh boy. It's telling you the – it seems like there's meaning in there because it's
telling you a pattern. But if you – but at the same time, if you never – if you never
put anything, slot anything into those variables, it's not – it needs the variables to have
meaningful things slotted into them for it to be meaningful. So I'm like, I don't know.
Is it meaningful? Is just that statement meaningful? And then it's like, because, you know, the
particular statement is meaningful, the general statement, I'm not sure if it is. And that's
again that thing between where meaning resides in particulars and as you move out towards
the more general and abstract, you lose that meaning. But it's like, at the same time,
do you? Do you entirely? Because you're still seeing these larger patterns. And those larger
patterns are meaning – may be meaningful? I don't know.
Bit further on, she's talking about how Gödel became a Platonist in university and talks
a bit about Plato, about how he – Plato basically devoted his life to taking on the
sophists, the protagorists and their moral relativism by leaning – basically all of
his stuff was about the objective. Well, kind of. Kind of all about the objective. It was
basically like – and that's basically what his theory of the forms is. Or not even really
theory. That's what the forms are. The objective external reality pointing to something out
there independent of us that we're beholden to, basically.
Which I guess shows why Plato's important. Plato based his ideas on the objective existence
of an abstract reality that's graspable, quote the words, with reason rather than with the
answers. Which I guess in some ways is kind of like the ultimate patterns. This is interesting.
So she's saying that the meta – the place in which Platonism has been most stubbornly
like immovable, like can't be gotten rid of, is with meta-mathematics. Basically she's
saying that any mathematicians who believe they are discovering things rather than creating
them are essentially committed to Platonism. I think that's what she's saying. She's
talking about how the Vienna of Gödel's youth was like almost uniquely – it's an
intellectual melting pot. That it was like a front row seat to the breakdown of the kind
of like the pre-modern world. And how there was this like the underlying – the intellectual
life of Vienna, which was like one of the greatest in the world, was just this conversation
between all these different fields. Like it was maths and science and philosophy and
physics and artists and novelists and all this stuff were all kind of talking to each other.
Kind of in some ways maybe like the Paris of the 50s. And it was – which I really want
to be part of that. That's the experience. That's what I'm looking for basically when
I keep thinking about where I want to settle and like the things I want and when I think
about looking at – when I failingly – I try and fail or try and look into the best
places in the world for philosophy and nothing really comes up. I'm looking for that. When
I think about wanting to be in these massive cosmopolitan cities like London, that's what
I'm looking for. I'm looking for a place like Vienna of Gödel's youth. An intellectual
hotbed where everything's kind of coming together. And she's talking about how the
underlying theme and the underlying conversation or the underlying thing brooding underneath
all that shared conversation was basically an awareness of the breakdown of the old way
of doing things and a desire for like an almost feverish search for a new foundation to move
forward on. I think it's like kind of almost where we
are again. Just I'm not sure that there is a place where that's happening. Although
having said that, I've read a bunch lately that's kind of like talking about how this
idea of like how place no longer matters is really overblown and that actually maybe place
matters more than ever. And I just – I'm desperate to find that place. I'm desperate
to find somewhere like the Vienna of the 20s and 30s or the Paris of the 40s and 50s. Like
the Oxford of the 20s and 30s. Somewhere maybe like the New York of the 60s and 70s.
Where that is – I want to find the place that's the intellectual melting pot. Where
that new conversation is happening. The conversation between all of the differing fields and – and
I'm – to be honest I'm not even sure that's happening anymore. Maybe the conversation
is no longer a conversation. It's just two sides, two really fractured splintered sides
screaming at each other. And maybe if it's happening somewhere it's happening on substack
but like still I just – I want to – where's the place I can live? Where's the place I
can be to be part of that kind of conversation? To be immersed in it. That's what I want
out of my life. That's what I want out of my experience. You know I want the Paris of
the existentialists. I want the Vienna of the – the Vienna circle and the logical positivists.
I want that. I want to be hooked into all of that. I want to be hooked into this cross-pollination
of – and I feel like that's – that is in some ways happening. That's what this
like kind of – that's what meta-modernism is. It's kind of this – this kind of like
trying to move forward from basically the fallout of the 20th century that we're still
dealing with. You know of this kind of the rupture of modernism and postmodernism and
trying to pick up the pieces of all of that and move forward. You know and we're kind
of left with that – we're kind of in that same position again trying – you know watching
everything implode and trying to maybe not foundations because maybe we've worked out
now there are no foundations but work out some way to move forward. I want to be part
of that. That's – yeah that's actually really crystallised and clarified things for
me. That's kind of what I'm looking for and maybe that isn't in the UK. I don't
know where it is and I don't know how to find out where it is. I don't know how to
find out where that's happening. I guess other than talking to people. To reach – reaching
out is the best I can do really. Because you kind of have to be in the in-crowd to know
that's what's happening. And I desperately want to be part of the in-crowd not for the
social part of it but for the desire to be part of that conversation. That's why I want
to do the writing I want to do. That's why I want to post on Substack. I want to be involved
in that. I want to be in that. And that's what my next steps have to be. Well no not
really because my next steps are to go to the UK. Because that's my next steps but the
next steps after that have to fit to find out if I want to live there. But the next
steps after that have to be to start. And that's what I've kind of hesitantly stumbling
around in the dark being trying to do in some ways. That's what a lot of the stuff I've
been thinking about is kind of heading towards. I need to really focus on – I need to come
back and listen to this. I probably should have done this as a separate fucking thing
I'm realising now. So note to self. Come back and listen to the note I made to myself
on the B folder note on Monday the 5th of August 2024.
