So this is a game idea, it's 237 on Sunday the 28th of May.
This is an idea for... I'm just going to start calling it "Last Dawn" for now.
That's going to be my provisional name, rather than calling it "My Game", "My Card Game".
I'm just going to start calling it "Last Dawn".
For now it's a provisional name, that's what I've called it on my Miro board.
So, an idea I just had is that it could potentially solve some of the problems.
It could be that the player, rather than playing one character,
rather than playing one character who's moving around the board,
they're just controlling one thing moving around the board and casting spells.
Like Arkham, you're one character, you're moving around the board,
you've got a deck that represents your character and their abilities,
you're casting stuff.
Rather than that, if you had a...
Each player is actually playing a party.
They're essentially playing like a small group of people who are going dungeon diving.
So that would be one of the ways that you could get around the facelessness and the like.
I mean, if your character's just dying, and you keep coming back,
like "Mmm, that doesn't really make all that much sense".
Whereas, when you're playing a party of characters, you're playing a small group.
And what the player themselves represents is...
I don't know, I'm not quite sure what that would be.
It's a bit more abstract then, but you could lose characters and it wouldn't be as big of a deal.
It would play into that horrifying aspect a bit more.
And you could also then have... that would enable you to do the PvP aspect, where you could have...
It's like multiple parties, it's like two parties that are going adventuring,
and they happen to stumble across each other in the depths of some dungeon.
And have to navigate the dungeon and the problems in the dungeon,
while also navigating the other party.
It's like a race, basically, like two parties racing to steal the object.
It's like all those heist movies, where there's two teams trying to get to the goal,
or catch the thing, or whatever.
It might be "Kill the boss".
And you've got your characters turning up, and it's two parties that have both been sent by different factions,
or been sent by the same factions, but it's like you're playing like a little team of dudes.
Like a sleeper cell, or like a cell.
Like in Dark Heresy you might have an overlord, like the Inquisitor,
who's quite far removed and has individual cells of agents that are doing things,
all doing his goals, but their immediate things might be...
He's almost pitting them against each other, or to see who rises to the top, or...
Like...
Oh fuck, that's actually a really good idea.
I wonder how I can play without it, I don't know if that will work with the like duck,
with the un-Bondage side of things, but you know, if you're a...
If you are a...
What's the term?
If you're a...
Each character is like...
Maybe there's the factions that are higher up, that are like an Imperial Inquisitor,
and they're like...
Obviously I'm not going down the Inquisitor route, 40k route or anything,
but that individual teams that all work for the same person, but their goals, immediate goals,
might not align and they still might fucking kill each other,
because this Inquisitor has like hundreds of sleeper agents.
They might not even know they're working for the same person.
It might be the same thing with the factions.
Because this is an every man for himself world.
Yeah.
That's a really interesting way to do it, I don't know how that would work
with the personalized thing of it.
I don't know how it would work with the...
The like flipping cards stuff, that kind of makes a little bit more sense with the one person,
but the experience stuff I was talking about the other day, that could easily...
It's not individual people's experience, it's the team's experience.
It's like the party.
Yeah.
And it also makes sense then how...
You're able to...
There might only be a couple of monsters,
and you've got a team of people who's trying to take them on.
And that kind of really goes for the...
Yeah, and then you might have...
You could have ways of having the two parties helping each other out,
because you never quite know what their goals are.
You could have multiplayer games where there's multiple parties.
It would get a bit complicated then, because you've got fucking 12-carat, you know.
Let's say you've got three or four characters each.
And you could have different classes that you could be running.
You've got thieves and hunters and all the people you've hired.
You could have a leader card and then other cards,
and each of them could have a ability, or you could have a deck that's like the team working together.
There's so many different things you could do with that.
It's definitely a different way of doing things.
I would have to really sit down and think about the differences,
what I would lose and what I would gain.
But I think just trying, just playtesting both versions a little bit and seeing what makes sense,
I think is a really good way to start.
Experience would work perfectly. You can have different experience levels.
Yeah. Damn. That's really cool.
Then you still get that magic feel a little bit, where you're not controlling your bit more removed,
and you're controlling multiple things.
You're maybe not controlling an army, or shitloads of monsters, and they're not completely faceless.
These are your guys. These are your people.
That way you could have a bit of continuity while you still have people die.
A lot of interesting things you could do with that.
So, a bit further along, at 36 minutes in,
he's talking about how the sense of connectedness that arises from relevance realisation,
where it's connecting you, binding you to the world in a reciprocal relationship.
He says that sense of connectedness to yourself, to the world, to others, is constitutive of.
So as in, it creates the sense that your life is worth living, basically.
It creates the relationships. Hold on.
So he says that sense of connectedness, which is religio,
when it's properly proportioned, which is the ratio religio,
is what gives you the relationships that give your life a sense of being meaningful,
in the sense of your life is worth living despite all of the alienation and pain and stress
and all of the stuff that comes with being alive.
So it is actually, right here, religio, relevance realisation,
that gives life that sense of meaningfulness through that connection.
And there's another example of meaning being related to relationships and connection.
So you have enough of this connectedness that your cognitive agency is supported,
so that you can solve enough problems, so that you can meet enough goals,
that it feels like your life is worth living.
I think there's more to it than just solving problems and meeting goals,
but that sense that your life is, that your cognitive agency is supported,
I think, is an important part of it, probably.
This is an important point.
A little bit further along, I was talking about how you, oh no, fuck that,
so you see, he's drawing on Melo Ponti here, I think this is going to be about optimal grip.
When you're looking at something, you can look at it close up.
How should you look at it? Look at it close up, further away, from certain directions, etc.
When you look at it close up, you get more detail.
When you look at it further away, you get a bigger picture, all those kinds of things.
He says all of these trade-off relationships, hold on,
he says all these different, like how you look at it, different ways you can look at it,
straight on, face up, close up, further away, etc.
And then probably also, I think he also means the attention stuff and the rouse stuff.
Those are all aspects.
Although I think he may mean aspects of the object, as in like close up, looking at it,
further away, looking at it, looking at it from different directions, etc.
He calls those aspects.
He says there's trade-off relationships between those aspects, you know,
like if you're too close, you lose the hole, if you're too far away, you lose the detail.
And this is the central point.
You can't have all the aspects at once.
You cannot have a frame that contains all of the aspects at once.
And that is the framing that we need to do, and that's an example of the unbounded complexity.
Every object is more than we can frame at anyone, in anyone go, basically,
because there's always trade-off relationships.
There's always more aspects than we can have at the same time,
because you can't have all of them at once.
You have to trade off between them.
You're always trading off between all of these different aspects, you know.
You're always doing opponent processing between all these different things,
like movement and attention and all of that stuff.
It's just like opponent processing relationships upon opponent processing relationships,
which is just even further evidence for that unity of opposites to shit,
and the tension between things, and that one, neither side is better than the other,
and that both are important, and we need to see the hole, and all that stuff.
Stuff that's like central to my world view.
And he's drawing on Merleau-Ponty here, and saying what Merleau-Ponty,
using John Vavik's language, pointed out, that that process is self-correcting,
and you're constantly being evolved towards an optimal point in all of those trade-off relationships.
So it's all of these different trade-off relationships,
all these different aspects in the trade-off relationships within them.
You are constantly evolving towards an optimal point in between all of those trade-off relationships.
This is optimal grip.
Constantly adapting towards optimal grip of the trade-off between all of those different aspects.
There's a really vital point. He says this optimal grip isn't an absolute point.
It's not a set point. That's always right.
And that's the really important part that we get locked out of.
We get locked into the search for an absolute point, an absolutely correct answer that's always correct.
That's eternalism. That's a lot of what rationalism is trying to do.
It's trying to get a correct answer, the perfect, the absolute right answer for every --
the one thing that's right for every situation, basically.
And he's saying, "No, that's not what optimal grip is.
It's a constantly evolving optimal point that's to fit to the particular situation."
This is why breaking and updating frames is important.
This is why the process of that tension between simplification and complexification is important.
Because we constantly need to not get locked into the search for a point,
like hyper-focusing on one particular frame, whether that's a rational system or -- et cetera, et cetera.
It's about how you're never just trying to get an optimal grip on one thing.
You're usually trying to get an optimal grip on multiple things, like at once.
You're trying to get an optimal grip on a book you're reading and the lectern you're standing at at the same time.
These different things, and it's a landscape of things that are constantly changing.
You're trying to get an optimal grip on all of them.
And he says the meta thing here that he wants you to think about is the optimal grip of getting an optimal grip on your optimal grips.
You need to find the best place that intersects between all of those optimal grips,
for all of those optimal grips that you need, that you're looking for.
Interesting point is he talks about one of the things your cognition is doing is constantly trying to get you into a meta optimal grip
based on yourself and your meta identity of what's the best place I should be to have an optimal grip on all of my perspectives and all of that kind of thing.
Clarify. So he was actually saying your consciousness is trying to give you a meta optimal grip on your perspectival knowing.
This meta optimal grip and the meta orientation, like your stance, like he talks about the fighting stance as an analogy,
those two come together into what he calls your fundamental framing.
This fundamental framing is the most fundamental way that your relevance realisation is coordinating itself and coordinating you.
It's trying to give you what you need in this situation, but that could be best transferred to other situations if you need it.
A few minutes in he starts talking about how that fundamental framing gives you your sense of realness because it gives you finite transcendence,
which is, and he talks about the panel processing relationship between finitude and transcendence.
Finite being, it's how objects always withdraw from you, how you always have to frame them, define them.
So all the things that you're ignoring and zeroing in on, that's the finitude, that's the frame.
And he talks about the transcendence side of things, which is also a sense of realness, the way that you are taken by surprise or awed by things,
because they exceed our frame, because things always exceed our frame.
We're constantly playing this finite and transcendence off against each other as we should, and I've just realised that finite transcendence is the process
I've been talking about of complexification, the tension between complexification and simplification.
That is finite transcendence.
Much later, an hour and twenty-three minutes, he makes a really powerful point, which is that in humans, in persons,
because we are mammals, then primates, then persons, we have relevance realisation turned the other way.
In mammals, they have to look after their young, which means, do they have to turn relevance realisation around?
How am I relevant to my young?
In chimps or in primates, it's how am I relevant to my group?
Because they, well I'd argue that others probably do this too.
Well actually, yeah, wolves and their mammals as well.
How am I relevant to my group?
Because of mindsights, they have to understand each other's, insight into each other's states of mind and stuff.
And then with persons, with humans, we get language and the massive level of complex interaction that entails.
But also means we are constantly, have to justify ourselves to others, which is at least a culture and normativity and all that sort of stuff.
He said, hold on, what's he saying?
With language, you're constantly concerned about how you're relevant to the group, how you matter to the group, how you can make a difference to the group.
Don't have that, because you don't have that sense that you are relevant to your group.
You don't have the sense that you are, that you matter, that you can make a difference to your larger group, which can be very large.
And it's probably increasing with scale as time goes on, you know, now we're in global existence, it's like how can I make a difference to all of humanity?
How can I be relevant to all of humanity? How can I be a superstar, etc. etc.
Which is an interesting thought to explore in and of itself.
You feel alienated, you feel isolated, you feel alone and you feel like your life is not worth living.
Damn, that's a powerful insight.
Relevance realization turned back the other way, how you become relevant to the group.
And I think in our age, the group is arguably almost all of humanity.
Interesting, following on from that, it says dialectic into diologos is about agape, phylia and eros, which is, you know, agape is how am I completely relevant.
It's completely the other centered, it's how am I relevant to this other.
Phylia is how are we co-relevant, how are we relevant to each other because we're in fellowship.
And eros is how is this thing relevant to me because I desire it.
How is this thing or this person relevant to me because I desire it.
