I've just been thinking a bit about my game idea.
I've been playing Diablo 4 a bit.
This is going to be a bit incoherent, but what if the first version I released was like
Last Dawn Duel or Dark Last Dawn Arena or something like that.
And it takes place on a board a bit like Genesis.
It has one to four players and an enemy AI boss basically.
Or even an enemy AI boss or something like that.
Or like traps and hazards or something to introduce some element of PvE experience.
And what if it had a...
So maybe like you get three actions.
And so there's like a planning phase at the start where everybody puts down two cards.
And then everybody reveals... well, I don't necessarily reveal their cards, but...
Maybe you can substitute a card for a defense action or an attack action or a move action or an interact action.
And you put down two and then there's like a third that happens afterwards. So it's like two phases, two actions and one action.
You put your cards face down on the board.
And rather than if you're going to just substitute them, you just keep them face down on the board and maybe like tap them or something.
So it's like move your characters, move value or make an attack with your characters, equip weapon, defend yourself with your basic... your characters' defense value.
Something like that.
Maybe there's like a reserve as well.
That's like not your current actions, but stuff that you've got on the board kind of thing.
And I don't know how... and then there'd be like instance or skill modifiers as part of that.
Maybe kind of discounting cards or tapping cards to defend yourself as part of some of your actions.
Yeah, so it'd be fairly fast, but often not at the same time.
So that's something to think about.
