It's currently, it's 9.05pm on Wednesday the 7th of June.
Just about to go to bed for the day, but I just had a thought of playing Diablo 4.
I'm a bit bored of Diablo 4. I'm getting bored already.
Mostly because of the same reason I always get bored of ARPGs as much as I like them.
It's a complete lack of tactical depth.
And I think I want, I've realised, I don't think any game ever lives up to my expectations.
I think I'd actually rather just make a game that does.
I want to basically make what I wanted out of Diablo 4 in a card game.
So I'm just going to focus on that, I think, once I finish Diablo.
And I'm going to focus on that, getting that experience out of my card game.
Which means I'm going to focus on, I think I need to pivot and sit down and spend a bit of time thinking about what it is actually is out of Diablo 4 and the Diablo ARPG games I wanted.
Build that.
I just had some thoughts about, like, location cards that then have zones.
You know, you maybe have a location card that says zone 4, which means it has four zones that you can build however you want.
You can put down four zone cards however you want.
And maybe characters have both health and, like, two health bars.
Basically like a PvP and a PvE health bar.
Where creatures don't have a huge amount of health.
So you can kill them with a couple of abilities.
But they also do damage, so maybe you've got PvP health, which is quite a large chunk.
And then PvE health, which is a much smaller chunk.
And PvE damage goes straight to your PvE.
Yeah, PvE monster damage goes straight to your health.
Whereas players have to hit your secondary health bar, which is a lot bigger.
That means when you're doing PvP, you can have larger, longer games.
It's not over in fucking, like, two abilities.
Whereas monsters can probably kill you relatively quickly.
So, and that way you could have, because they've got two different types of damage, you could have cards that are built for, you know, you can use them in both PvE and PvP.
It may be a card that does, um, no.
Against monsters, you know, SS, against monsters deal three HP.
Against players, deal ten morale, or something.
Something like that, endurance, something like that.
So you know, you have cards that can be used in both formats.
And I think I'm gonna maybe ditch some of the, like, still go for that horror, dark, survival theme.
But ditch that as part of some of the gameplay elements and focus more on what I wanted out of Diablo 4.
A little bit slower, but still, like, exciting, strategic, action-packed game.
I think what I should maybe, or should do, while playing Diablo is paying attention to, while I'm playing it, paying attention to what I do like about it.
Really breaking down what I'm enjoying, what's good, what I could take, what I could use, what I'd change.
You know, what I would change, you know, all of the problems I have with it and how I would change them, and then see if I can do that in a game.
I mean, you know, just moments I really enjoy, that kind of thing.
Maybe just have, like, a journal open next to me while I'm doing, while I'm playing it.
And, you know, like a one-note page while I'm playing it, and just, you know, switch.
Anytime I have something that comes up, either use this, or write stuff down.
And start using it as, like, a bit of a research experience as well, rather than just getting into the flow state and getting super sucked into it.
That's also kind of exciting in its own way.
