It's 6.58am on Friday the 10th, I think. I think it's the 10th of June. This is not a
SIVA at all. I'm listening to episode -- I don't even know what fucking episode it is.
Yep, I've started listening to the TCG Design podcast again, just 'cause this changes everything.
It's very emotionally loaded, and the philosophy podcast is I just -- my brain can't stop,
like, consuming it. And I need something that's still interesting but is a bit more, I don't
know, I get less obsessed about and just want to think about it all the time. And also I've
been after playing Diablo and all that kind of stuff and realizing just no game lives
up to my own standards, that I want to make a game that fixes the problems I have with
other games. Yeah, I've started wanting to work on my board game -- oh, my card game
again, or my tabletop game. I'm just gonna call it a tabletop game 'cause I don't even
know what final form it's gonna probably take. Probably a card game. But -- and also with
that, with a combination of finding out that I can use Miro Blackboard on my tablet as
like a -- basically like a simulated tabletop game space to do playtesting, rather than
having to fucking cut out individual cards. Anyway, yeah, so I'm listening to an episode
on TCG combat design. And a little thing first, he mentions that the guy they're interviewing
mentions that he has been kind of designing games since he was young 'cause he used to
play games, like card games, and would fix the problems with the game. Fix the problems,
like basically come up with rules to fix the problems that they had with the game. Which
is exactly what I have been doing. I've been doing -- I don't think I've been doing it
to quite that extent, but he talked about fixing magic by coming up with their own rules
for having a deck pile and a land pile, which is exactly what I thought. But yeah. He talks
about how -- yeah, so honestly I think that get that game design bone in me does go really
deep 'cause every game I play I always want to fucking fix it. Because no game ever lives
up to what I want. You know, as soon as 40k, its 10th edition came out, or like they started
revealing stuff for 10th edition, I was really impressed. But there's also like, "Oh, I'd
fix this and I'd fix that." So I think that part of me runs deep. But he also talks about
-- yeah, actually getting on to stuff, the meat of what he's talking about, he's talking
about designing combat mechanics, and I'm just gonna listen to what he says again. He
talks about how combat TCGs are like solving the problem of how to defeat -- or how to
kill your enemy, basically. And it's how to do that, you know, how can you do that with
precision and basically humans find solving tasks that are like solving problems inherently
satisfying and fun, and experience that as fun, and you're solving the problem of how
to kill the enemy player. And he talks about how interaction is really important. Interaction
is like the key to combat. Interaction being able to block any -- for magic in particular,
he says something like the stack, where you know, you've got instant speed and you can
really interact with everything, like decision points basically. That decision making, that
decision making, I think is the really important part, the ability to decide how you're going
to interact with the -- to almost always have some way of making a decision about how you're
going to interact with what the enemy player is doing to you. Whether you're blocking an
attack or whether you're casting an instant to stop it, etc., etc., like that, that interactivity
is important. To quote him, "I attacked you, what are you going to do about that?" is a
really good basic gameplay loop basically for combat. He talks about dual masters, which
is a -- yes, a DCG that he doesn't think is all that -- he thinks that's not all that
good because they have a mechanic called blocker, which is basically like other -- rather than
magic where all of your creatures can block, if you don't -- you have to have a specific
creature that can block you, that can block, kind of like Hearthstone. And that's really
-- you know, if the enemy attacks you and there's just like nothing you can do because
you don't have the right card out that can actually block, that's fucking shit boring.
It's about the equivalent in magic, which is like flying, which is, you know, you can't
be blocked except unless you take stuff that has -- unless you design -- like unless you
build your deck around that, which is part of the decision making, how you're going to
deal with things that can -- that can't be blocked. No one enjoys just getting like hit,
getting smacked and not being able to do anything about it. It's not fun. He mentions that they're
always has to be a way to deal with priority, who gets to do what at what point, which he
says magic is a -- deals with really well through the stack, the turn sequence. If you
have -- if you're designing a game and you haven't designed, built in some way of addressing
priority, do that first. Do that now. Because nobody likes a game where it's confusing who
gets to do what when. Having -- he talks about an example of what not to do is having simple
-- kind of like simple of numbers where it's like, rather than having attack and defense,
having one number, you know, your one cost is a thousand, my one cost is a thousand,
your two cost is -- your one cost is a thousand, my two cost is two thousand, I win. Rather
than having like an attack and a defense kind of thing. He talks a bit about the importance
of having kind of like multiple win conditions, which is usually like, you know, even if it's
as simple as reduce the enemy's life to zero or if they can't draw anymore cards. Just
so it's like not an infinite -- if nothing else, just so it's not an infinite game, basically.
But I think that -- I think that's actually important. Like, I think that's something
like that vampire bloodlines or whatever it was called did really well, that there was
kind of those multiple ways to win. And I think that's kind of -- balancing that might
be a bit hard, but I think it's actually probably important either, here in my game, either
like be the last person standing or like -- what's the term? I don't know, yeah, something else
that's kind of related to the theme like gather all the food thing, I don't know. Be the first
one out of the dungeon, something, I'm not sure. He says include degenerates in your
design process because if you have something like the ability to mill an opponent, people
will build -- there will be people who will build around that. So design for that. Talks
about having cards that push the pace, like, you know, so you don't have situations where
there's somebody who's, you know, just trying to kind of -- who's just playing magic the
normal way and then another person who's just kind of infinitely stalling and milling the
opponent so that they like don't get to fucking do anything. It's just fucking frustrating.
So design around that because there will be people who will do that if it's possible.
However, having multiple ways to win is more difficult design-wise, but it's also a little
bit more difficult for new players because if you're -- have a new player and you just,
you know, it's easy to just say this is how you win, kill the enemy. That's simple. Whereas
if they have to think about other ways, like multiple different ways to win, then that
becomes more complicated. He actually says that he doesn't like having multiple goals
for a designer's perspective and also from a kind of a simplicity for new players perspective,
it's much easier to just have one goal that both players are racing for because otherwise,
you know, you might have -- be at a state in the game where you're like, well, I can
kind of do -- I can go for multiple of these win conditions. Which one should I do kind
of thing? It becomes a bit more unclear. He makes like one note. If you want to have more
than one -- if you want to have more than one win condition, you know, and you want
to have win conditions that are like a bit more drawn out, like he said, you know, long,
wacky, drawn out win conditions, then just be aware that you are probably not going to
be able to have sets in tournament play. It'll be like -- it'll be best at once because otherwise
the games will just go too long.
The suggestion this guy has is if you want to be a game designer for TCGs, go play in
some tournaments or even just like Friday Night Magic for other games, other TCGs basically.
If you want to make a competitive game, you have to understand how tournaments work. You
have to understand how pairings, tiebreakers, scoring, all of that shit, how all of that
works. You have to understand that stuff if you're going to try and set up organized play
for your game, which, you know, any decent TCG is probably going to want to do.
It's important as well if you do want to build a game that's made to be able to be played
in organized competitive play, you need to be able to -- that needs to be part of the
design considerations because you need to be able to have games where you can push -- you
can't have games where people can stall out the game for several hours kind of thing.
Like tournament games can't go for too long. The game needs to be able to be finishable
in X amount of time, which means you either have to have objectives that are completable
in that time, not too many different objectives, you know, multiple -- like a win condition,
like a death clock, like a countdown timer kind of thing, et cetera, et cetera.
You talk about focusing on finding the fun, making an experience with your players. Most
players are going to find it enjoyable, not where, you know, one player gets to grind
the other person down and, you know, the other person always has options. There's always
interactivity. It's not just, you know, a control player sitting there stopping absolutely
everything the other person tries to do and, you know, basically not, like, deleting their
ability to do anything and then decking them essentially with, like, mills, that kind of
stuff. That's not fun really for anybody involved. It's not fun for viewers. It's not fun for
-- like, it's kind of interesting a little bit. So if you want to maybe build -- he doesn't
talk about this, but if you want to find interesting ways of -- build interesting ways of doing
things or the opportunity of doing things into the game. Yeah, if you do want to build alternative
strategies like mill decks into the game, you have to probably find a way to make them
enjoyable for everybody and, you know, the other person still has options, not just an
anti-game basically. Which is why things like stuns and shit are hard, because they stop
people from doing stuff, but you also kind of have to be able to stop people from doing
stuff in some ways, so they're really kind of hard to balance. Taking people's agency
away is difficult. It's very powerful and also, like, kind of not fun for the person it's happening
to. One thing you could do is do the opposite of debuffs, you know, like, rather than a stun,
taking a player out for a turn or, you know, reducing what they can do, it, like, increases
the options of the person who stuns them. Like, maybe if you stun an enemy player, you
get an extra turn or something, you know, so it's like kind of simulating them, um, kind
of being stopped so you get to go again, but it's not actually stopping them from doing
anything, kind of thing. Don't design, they say, don't design your game like a Yu-Gi-Oh.
Don't have rules that are like a whole fucking page. Just start there. This is something
interesting he talks about. He talks about how 1-drops in Magic are, you know, usually
a 1/1 or a 2/1 with some downside or something like that. Although they've gone a bit insane
recently. He says in their game they designed things that are about 3 or 4 times more powerful
for their cost in terms of attack and defence. Like, a 1-drop is a 4/4 kind of thing, and
they wanted that so that they could tune the effects, tune the cards a lot more precisely
because, you know, rather than a 1-drop could be a 1/4 and have a whole bunch of effects
or something and still be worth one mana. It gives you much more, um, gives you more
range basically, which I think is an interesting point. Not going too far like Yu-Gi-Oh where
it's like a basic creature is a fucking a thousand, a thousand or something like that,
but a little bit more, or a bit more range then, um, Magic is good I think. But also
you don't want to make it too much bigger because then you start to have to do too much
maths. He keeps going on and talking about it and I think actually that's a really good
idea, a really good point. You know, there's not really much design space, much flexibility
with 1-drops in Magic. They kind of have to be pretty much either like a 0 if they're
going to have more than really one or two defense. That they have to be like a 0, 3 or something
or they have to be a 2, 1 with a downside or they're not that and they're just fucking
OP. Whereas he's talking about, you know, their cards, like a 3, a 3-drop, you've got
12 to work with, um, or sorry no, like a, like a yeah, like a 1-drop, you've got essentially
got 8, 8 in total to work with so you could have like a 1-7 or a 0-8. So you could have
a 0-8 that's able to completely block a, you know, a 2-cost kind of thing. It just gives
you, or you know, 2-5s or, and there's a lot more flexibility there and a lot more different
things you can do. You can have something that's like maybe a really, really powerful
ability at a 3-cost but it has the, the, um, the stats of a 1-drop kind of thing. So it
just gives a lot more, a lot more tuneability which I think is a good idea. I think it's
actually a really good idea.
This isn't something they're talking about, it's something I'm thinking of, but I think
it's a really good idea, like something I was reading about the other day and it's something
I think 10th edition has done quite well, 10th, 4th, 40k 10th edition of rather than
leaning on abilities. Like, something I like about Infinity is that you don't need tons
and tons of special abilities to make the game interesting. Like, just the basic mechanics
of the game, the basic stats of the game and how the game, the gameplay works means that
even basic infantry dudes can do lots of, like, you can have a lot of interesting interactions
and a lot of between cover and positioning and all of that kind of stuff and range bands.
Literally, all you need is, you know, different range bands, things in cover or not, that's
about it and like different stats. You don't even need any special abilities in the game,
it'll already be interesting.
I think, um, because I've been thinking about maybe having like cards that have multiple,
you know, every card has like a movement stat, a defensive stat that you can use to defend
yourself, an amount you can use the card to move, um, maybe you can use them to cast your
mana, like every card can be used for multiple different things. And I think that's interesting
because it means you don't have to have lots, that's an interesting way to approach it because
with magic, you've only got two stats, three stats really. You've got their, um, their
cost, their mana cost, their attack and their defence and then everything else comes from
the abilities. Whereas you can work with, you can get a lot more dynamic, a lot more
balance and a lot more dynamic interaction and stuff. Um, and a lot more difference,
I guess, differentiation of cards when you've got kind of just multiple, you don't want
too many, that's a sweet spot I guess, but multiple stats. So, you know, example, if every
card had, um, you know, I think it's something that, um, Fab, Flesh and Blood does pretty
interestingly where it's got, a card has a value you can use to defend with it, a value
you use when attacking with it and a value, uh, it, like how much it costs to play and
how much it, mana it supplies you. So every card has four different stats, which I think
is a really interesting system. So if I took that and like took it even further, for example,
so maybe every card can be, every card has a movement stat, every card has a defence
stat, every card has, well not every card has to have an attack stat, but every card
probably, most cards will probably have a movement and defence stat, so you use, you
play those cards to defend yourself or to, or to move around the board. Um, you've got
anything that's a damaging ability will also have damage, um, and then you've also got,
like a, the in-game cost, but then you've also got the out-of-game deck-building cost
of XP, um, which I think is an interesting, and if you now have decent enough numbers,
like you, like a, like what they're talking about, a decent enough number range of like,
you know, rather starting with ones, like Fab and Magic, where if you've got one drop,
two drops, Thanksgiving, three mana and do five damage, you know, if you've got, if the
equivalent of a one-one is like five-five, or if there's no creatures in this, so would
it be like, you know, um, one, six, or something, and creatures might have four stats, they
might have, um, or even maybe five stats, they've got, um, attack, defence, or like
armour, so there could be a different stat you could have, attack, so the amount of damage
they do, um, uh, defence, which is the amount of damage you have to do, you have to do a
certain amount of damage to get past their defence, right, like reduces the damage of
anything coming at them, their health, which gets ticked down as you do damage to them,
their speed, maybe their number of targets they can attack, um, their number, the range
of their attacks, um, and yeah, and even just, just with that alone, you have already, without
having to have special abilities, you just have a bunch of different stats, you've already
got whole, you can maybe have like defence or hit value, so how much you need to be able
to hit, like, maybe not what you need to roll, but what you need to, I mean you have to be
able to hit things, but, um, yeah, something like that, so you can work off of combining
a lot of different stats without having to have abilities, and combined with a bit more,
a bit more range in numbers, so you've got more flexibility, more, more tunability, more
design space. He talks about how, um, like, to do with all of this, you can, if you make
a card and it turns out to be a bit meh, like it's a little bit, and I'm also expanding
this a little bit myself, but if you're making a card and it turns out to be a bit shit,
like for its cost or like its abilities a bit meh, you can overstat it by maybe, you
know, if it's a 4/4, you can actually make it a 5/4/5, and suddenly other 1 drops can't
hurt it, they can't actually kill it. So it might be a 1 drop, but suddenly other 1 drops
can't kill it in one go, and that's actually quite a big increase, um, and you can do a
similar stat, they didn't actually talk about that, I was thinking about that myself, I
was thinking maybe I could do a, a kind of combine magic and, like a more long term thing
of, you know, when your magic has defense and the defense, it's just about the amount of
damage you can do in one go, and it resets at the start of every turn. You could have
defense that is like their ability to stop their damage incoming, um, which ticks down
throughout a turn, and then it's like magic and resets at the start of every turn, but
then they also have health, so you know, maybe you have to do a certain amount of damage
to, um, have to do a certain amount of damage to break through their defense value within
a turn, which is like, kind of like exhausting them and their, and their, exhausting their
ability to, um, exhausting them and their ability to defend themselves, kind of wearing
them down, um, and then anything past that within a turn starts to do damage to their
health, and then, um, that health damage is permanent. That's probably a very good way
to do it with characters, because characters will probably, that way you can have characters,
you know, maybe don't necessarily, they've got like a large health pool, but they maybe
don't necessarily have a huge amount of defense, um, so you can kind of like chip away, you
have to kind of chip away at them a bit, um, but it stacks up, and that's maybe a way you
can do the, the, what I was talking about with the like having characters and, and it
takes a while to actually kill an enemy player where it doesn't take that long to kill an
enemy character, a monster, and they maybe, enemy monsters maybe don't take that long
to kill you. The way you could do that is you could have maybe, um, lethal damage or
something, or like piercing damage, or, um, uh, rending strike something, some kind of
word that's like, um, bypasses defense entirely and just goes straight to health, um, and
you could have monsters, just like all monsters do that for example, so anytime a monster
hits you it just goes straight through your defense and hits your health, so monsters
can kill you a lot quicker than enemy players can, or, um, you could have like really big
creatures, or you know certain attacks that they make that like, you know, there's, there's,
there's levers there where you know maybe defense, defense resets at the start of every
turn so you don't have to track it, um, so you don't have to like have something to track
it throughout a game, resets at the start of every turn or even at the start of every
round or something like that, um, and you know there's maybe ways to increase your, like
buff your defense back up, you know like a parry effect or something which stops, like
it maybe increases defense by against, you know, when they use, when they're hitting
you with an attack, increase your defense by X amount for the, for the duration of this
attack and so if you know, if they do an X amount of damage, if they do a certain amount
of damage it will still, um, hit you and maybe reduce your overall defense but it will, um,
yeah actually I think it's a really good way to do it. So players and monsters have an
attack value, a, monsters, players probably aren't going to have an attack value but,
you know, monsters would probably have like an attack value on their, separate attack
values on their build unlike their different attacks, like different attacks, they probably
they might have multiple different attacks, um, depending on, use certain ones on certain
different circumstances, um, etc etc but you know maybe like wolf, for example shark, uh,
when it has an effect that's like a wind blow, you know it has, it has X attack but it has
two different attacks maybe, um, but it's like, um, no that'd probably just be a buff, it
probably made more sense to just have a, have a buff. You know maybe there's, like a bowman
has a skill that Archer has shot, which is like range 3, target 1, damage 3, um, and
then like once per encounter or something they have a, um, once per encounter they have,
am I still talking? Yeah I am, fuck. Once per encounter they have an ability that's,
uh, you know like fire arrow or something that does damage in an AoE, um, and it's,
uh, they use it when, I don't know, under some circumstances maybe like the first time they
attack or the first, or the first time they make an attack and there's, the first time
they have the opportunity to attack and there's a, um, enemy or maybe something like so they've
got shot, fire shot, a shot and fire shot, shots just like maybe 4 or 5 range, 3 range
whatever, damage 2, target's 1, um, pierce 0, I don't know, um, pierce that's a good way,
work for it's a little bit lethal, um, or you could have like a pierce, yeah that's another
thing, you could have pierce values and damage values, so pierce values maybe, uh, every time
you make an attack you, that has a pierce value, you ignore the pierce amount of their defence,
or maybe just pierce just always goes directly to their health or something like that,
and just pierce always ignores defence, go straight on to health, but it's always just
generally lower, um, but, fuck what was I just talking about before, um,
yeah maybe you have, ah fuck I'm actually entirely forgot what I was talking about before pierce,
oh yeah so it's like an archer, um, and it has fire attack, fire shot, which is, um,
uh, range, you know same, the same stats but a higher damage, um,
it has like, you know maybe blast one or something, or um, aoe one or some stat that's like
within damage, it applies its damage to anything within that range, um, and has a, has a, um, puts a
burning effect on the player or whatever's, whatever gets hit, um, trigger first attack of the game,
trigger first attack this thing makes, for the first attack they make they open with it, um,
they, and it's maybe once per encounter, um, and, uh, and maybe it recharges under certain
circumstances, um, and, uh, has another effect that's like when, when a, when, uh, influenced by a
leader, you know leaping in, in bold leader tag, um, uh, then you maybe use their, or they maybe use
fire when skeleton leader, this attack, when skeleton leader uses its command ability or
something like that, yeah, a lot of fucking design space there, yeah, I really like that actually,
uh, and like, and monsters should probably have like basically like AI values, like how,
who they target, who they'll go after, if they'll follow people, like prey kind of thing in, um,
welcome, and you could have like hierarchies of, hierarchy of praying, so it's like, you know,
maybe like targets, um, or nemesis or target, some, some stat to say who they will target,
and it's just like closest enemy, closest enemy, yeah, closest adventurer, closest enemy, whatever,
um, number one closest enemy, uh, no, number one might be, um, oh yeah, mum and dad aren't here,
forgot about that, rank one of their hierarchy of targets might be, um, the target of their,
anybody within the area that skeleton commander has, um, anybody within the, within the, uh,
attack zone area of, area of the, of skeleton commander or something like that, you know,
of any skeleton commander, so skeleton, anything with a skeleton commander tag might have an
ability that lets them designate a zone that anybody is inside will get shot, or designated
a specific target or anything like that, um, uh, and then you could have, uh, like when, when
you could have it that basic creatures are just automatically AI'd, but bigger creatures that
turn up like skeleton commanders by the dead players or in the like monster phase, enemy players,
like not enemy players, but players might kind of take over, although that's hard to do because
then they'll play them in a way that means that they don't, yeah, I don't know, have to maybe
find some way of doing that, or, you know, if you're playing the nemesis deck or something, um,
yeah, so it might be like rank one,
anything they've been commanded to attack, like some way of working out anything they've been
commanded to attack by the skeleton commander, rank two, um, uh, anything they have,
whatever last hit them, rank three, whatever's closest, so it's like if they're being commanded
to attack something by a commander, they will attack that thing, um, otherwise they'll attack
the closest thing, the last thing that hit them, um, until it dies maybe, or just last thing that hit
them, um, or, I don't know, after anything, after they haven't been hit yet, they'll just shoot the
closest thing, yeah, lots of stuff you could do. Fuck, this is so cool, I really enjoy this so much,
I can like picture this shit in my head, I actually want to just go like, basically like,
mock these cards up in, um, what's-his-face, and do like a round, like a round of combat or something,
just to like see how this works, it's fucking cool. This is kind of unrelated to what I've just been
talking about, but, um, another gameplay thought you could do kind of like what, um,
rather than having, uh, like, Arkham die, I mean you could do this as well, but how Arkham works is you have
cards, and then you have like base level cards, and you've got the same card, um, but with, at a
higher experience cut point, that, like, cost experience, um, that's just the same card but
more powerful, it's literally like usually G by N has a better effect, but it costs experience,
so you like have to get them over time, um, you could, uh, do something like that, or you could also, or like have
similar things, like, but it's very similar cards, but they're actually called something different,
and they have different, you know, maybe it's like the same mana cost, but the next three cards, all the
same mana cost, but each is more powerful than the next, but they cost different amounts of experience,
um, so it's like you might have a, you might have a lot of low cost stabby attacks to make up your deck,
to balance out having this really big, large, powerful attack, but you could also have, um, do what's,
something like what, um, what's it called, Grim, uh, fucking the thing, Grim Haven? Grim Haven,
Grim Haven does, where you've got, like, you have, you can upgrade your, like, you've got little dots
on your, your cards, and you can upgrade, um, the little dots on your cards, and you can,
you can put little stickers on to, like, increase the, the area that they hit, or you can increase the,
um, the damage they do, or their PSO, etc., etc., etc., increase all these different things, um,
yeah, you can do that, or, oh, fuck, yeah, that's sick, so, um, I want to get back to this, but I just had a really quick thought, so that, so in case I forget, that thing was, um,
adding, like, essentially, you have, like, maybe you have your ability cards on the, on the field, and then you can kind of keep reusing them, like, like a build kind of thing in Diablo, but then, with experience, you can kind of, like, buy tokens that you put onto your cards,
to increase their, like, increase their stats, like, you might have, um, one that just does more damage, like, you can just, a token that increases its damage is just like a damage token, or a pierce token, or a range token, or a blast token, etc., etc., etc.,
so you can just, like, you can individually tailor your abilities, so there's that, which builds, which works into that whole, um, like, idea I had, which is, 'cause this is, came from that ARPG, um, idea where it's like, uh,
each of your abilities has, like, a talent tree, where there's all these kind of things come, like, things branching out of your abilities, where you can upgrade them, and then you can upgrade each of your individual abilities,
like, put ranks into the ability, but you can also put ranks into, like, effects that come off of the ability to, to individually tailor each of your abilities, you can almost do that, um, and there's also, uh, the other thing I was thinking about is, to do with that defense thing,
you could, so your character might have on their, their card, you might have a health value, a health pool, and a defense value, which your health pool is, starts at the top and then ticks down as you take damage, and your defense value resets at the start of every turn, right?
But then you might also have, um, your cards, certain, not necessarily all of them, but certain cards you might have, um, defense values on, that when an enemy attacks you, you can play the defense value, you can play the card, maybe just, like, essentially sacrifice the card, and put, to put it down and get its defense, uh, get its defense value, um,
which, kind of like, it increases, it's like that, that card I was talking about, that, like, doing that parry, but that could be on, like, lots of cards, lots and lots of different cards might have a, a, um, a defense value on them, that you can put down to essentially give yourself extra defense for the, for the duration of that attack, so it's like you're basically parrying, you're buffing yourself, you're defending yourself, um,
yeah, that's really cool. So maybe you have five damage, five health, five defense, so this creature has ten, ten attack, so it's gonna hit you, it will hit you and do five damage, um, it'll hit you and do five damage, but to, if you put down this card, it'll increase it to ten, um, for the purposes of this attack, and you'll stop all of that damage going through.
Or it could even be, um, like, defense could even be not even within a round, it could just be within one, like, one instance of combat, every, like, within each attack chain your defense completely resets, so they have to do a certain amount of damage to get past your defense at all, lots of different ways you can do it.
Fuck, and then you can have super hyper specialized cards that are like, you know, and they can play to different classes, like, the barbarian might have a, um, difference between a barbarian and a fighter, for example, if I don't think I'd actually want to do that, but you could have one card, one class that has a bit of a lower defense value, but a very high health pool, um, and then another class that has a lower health pool but a really high, like, really high defense, so they're heavily armored, um,
and you could have, like, you know, maybe the mage class has low of both, low defense and low health, um, and, like, I don't know how you'd maybe do evasion into that, too, evasion could come into the defense, it could just be, like, the same thing.
You're either defending yourself by evading, or you're defending yourself by, um, uh, defending yourself by evading, or you're defending yourself by, um, blocking the attack, or maybe, um, you know, both there's evasion and blocking, or evasion and defense, and evasion completely stops all the damage, but it, like, exhausts you, you can only do it a couple of times, sort of thing.
It'll just completely stop any incoming damage, and maybe even move you a space, or something like that. I mean, you know, maybe some attacks you can't block, you can only dodge, but every time you dodge you have to put, like, an exhaustion counter on you, or something like that.
It's just getting a little bit complicated, but there's so many different fucking things you could do. So many different things.
Yeah, and anyway, so you could have, like, the mage class maybe has low def- like, natively on his card has low defense and, like, lower health and lower def- like, lower health and low defense compared to everybody else, and a lot of their cards might have low defense, but he's got really high damage.
Or, like, high damage and lots of utility, but not a lot of life.
Although he's then maybe got a few cards that are, like, really high defense, that kind of thing. And maybe not all cards are gonna have defense, you know, you might have, like, a block, like, it's literally called, like, shield block or something, only use if you are currently have the shield tag, something, 'cause you gain that tag when you're wearing a shield.
And, uh, just, it's just, like, increase your, so maybe while you're wearing a shield in general, like, just having a shield equipped increases your base defense.
And then as long as you have the shield on, you can use this card, you can play this card and it can't be used for anything else, doesn't have any other stats, but it has a really high defense value, so it's like you're parrying attacks with your shield.
Fuck yeah, that's cool!
This could all work until, like, the resources for this could be, like, exhaustion or, like, stamina, kind of thing. Everybody has, like, a stamina resource.
That kind of depletes throughout, like, you know, every time you evade, it uses up one of your stamina resources or something, so that you, um, stuff goes through, so you get worn down, basically. Maybe that's what the resource is.
And when you run out of stamina, when you run out of, run out of, you're either out of the game or you have to replenish it or something like that.
You know, that could be the, the, like, kind of, that actually kind of makes sense a bit for the, for the setting, like, health and, you know, stuff like health, food and exhaustion and endurance and that kind of stuff actually being an important part of it.
I think stamina or exhaustion is actually a really good way to do it because, um, it's like, you know, you could have, you could, uh, it would, maybe it would combine the, um, magic side of things.
Or not magic, like the, the hearthstone side of things where you just get mana every turn with the, um, what's it called, the, um, Genesis Battle of Champions side of things where it's, you know, you start, you're at your most powerful at the beginning of the fight.
And often you'll fight for, be fighting the weakest stuff at the, at the start of the, of the campaign, um, at the start of the scenario.
But you're actually stronger at the start and as the game goes on you become weaker because you run, you, you're not only have less cards, you've got, like, you're running out of, you're getting fucking tired.
You know, it could maybe be you get, um, you start off with a cap of, you know, you start off with your full amount of endurance.
You start off with full endurance or stamina, maybe, whatever it's called, whatever you want to call it.
You start off with full stamina, um, and then, you start off with full stamina and then you, um, as you use cards that uses up stamina and you regain your, at less than your maximum, you regain stamina every turn.
Some X amount of stamina every turn. Um, and there's maybe cards you can play to give you extra stamina that are like, you know, eating food or something or taking a rest.
Something like that. Um, yeah, I'm not quite sure how to, how to go about doing that but I think that's actually a pretty decent way.
You could almost do, like, um, you could do different, uh, Lightning and Magic has different mana types. You could have different resource types through things like, maybe this, this stamina, but there's also other things.
Um, you know, each subclass has its own kind of type of resource like Fury or Adrenaline or, um, Energy, Focus, Willpower, Mana, whatever. And they're different cards.
So you have to kind of build those into your deck too. Dunno.
Uh, then you could, you could also, like, you could, because there's already monsters in the game, you could have summons as well that follow the same rules as regular monsters.
They have their own AI, they, you know, they have their own abilities, they just, they just run off and do shit. You don't control them.
However, you can use your actions, you know, maybe there's other cards or the card that summons them stays on the field and you can use an action to, like, target, uh, set a target for it kind of thing.
Or use an action to buff the creature, that kind of thing. Um, and also in the, in the Arena mode, you could have, um, monsters there that are like allies.
You know, maybe both players have themselves and then a couple of allied monsters that are just kind of wandering around attacking stuff.
Um, yeah, all sorts of stuff you could do. And, you know, they say that their priority is like closest enemy.
And then for you they gain, and you gain the ally tag for them and they gain the ally tag for you.
Uh, in a way you could, um, have, a way you could do both the, like, uh, mind games thing I've been thinking about but also have, uh, there was, it, it does a bunch of things I was thinking of, but you could have it at, at the start of every turn.
People, everybody places down maybe two, everybody has three actions. At the start of every, at the beginning of every turn, everybody places down maybe two or three cards.
Flips them at a certain phase so everybody sees the same thing. So as everybody sees. And because there's so many, most cards have so many different options, um, you can, you can, you can choose which of the options you're going to do.
Like you can use it to defend, you can use it to attack, etc., etc. Um, you can use it to, you know, I'm going to use this card to move, that kind of thing.
Um, and then each card uses up an action. And then maybe they've got initiative values on them as well. So you can choose, um, you know, you maybe sum up the total of all the initiative values and that's how many, that's who gets to go first, or in what order, or anything like that.
Um, and then those cards, unless they are used up, unless, you know, maybe there's, there's cards that you play that when you play them they're gone, like they're like sorcerers or instance.
But when you have played all of your, when you've used all your cards, like when the turn's over, maybe there's some cards that move into, after being played, they move into like a buff space or something so they just stay there.
Um, but other cards, most other cards you maybe then, at the end of the turn everybody picks their cards up again, puts them into their hand, um, and places them, and then at the next, you know, maybe they draw another card, and then they place them back down again.
So every turn you're picking your cards up, some of them you're using, so you know, you're picking your cards up, you're putting them back down, and the other players don't know why you, you have to find, there has to be a way to then churn through the cards, you probably have to use up the cards to attack, um, to defend or move, or I don't know, different ways you can do it.
But, it may be any abilities that don't get let you left over, or certain abilities that are, um, maybe certain abilities that you usually go on a cooldown, so they actually stay on the field, but like tapped for a turn or two, um, and you don't pick them up, you have to leave them there, which means you can't put as many cards back down, or you put them into your cooldown zone or something, so you put them in the cooldown zone and you currently pick them back up when, um, the cooldown is over.
When their cooldown has passed, um, all sorts of different, you could have three different levels of the, of the cooldown, you know, maybe five different levels of the cooldown zone, each, they move up one, one level through the cooldown zone each time, so that they, um, you know, each turn anything that's on the, any card that's in the, in the cooldown zone moves up one cooldown level, and once it's out of, it's like the number of rounds before you get it back, um,
you could, um, yeah, so cards maybe stay on the field, maybe basic card, like, you know, basic attacks, you always just pretty much always just get to pick them up again, um, yeah, so many, like, that, that does so many different things, and then you assume maybe you put two down, and then you can play a third one from your hand after revealing,
and in your turn you get to play a third one. So much different stuff you could do, fuck, I love this.
You could also have trap cards that are, um, that, you know, there are certain types of cards that you don't reveal, you put them down but you don't reveal them.
You could also have cards that you, you can choose not to reveal, or just like any card you can choose not to reveal, but you don't, um, get to use, uh, like your initiative value is based on the value of the cards you play, um, so,
if you don't reveal any cards, your initiative is like one, like the lowest initiative, so you always go last, but then you can, like, pull everything out and fuck everybody over, kind of thing, like, "Ooh, nobody knows what I'm playing," or you can flip one over and keep the other one hidden or the other two hidden, etc., etc., you can, the cards you can trade out, all sorts of different things you could do.
