I've been trying to think about how to resolve the problem in the Last Dawn idea game.
How to solve the problem of...
Kind of work out what scale I want the game to be at, and how to solve the problem of having progression while also having it be able to get away with it being fairly lethal and have your characters just fucking die.
I was approaching it from the lens of Arkham, where you're playing a specific character.
I wanted the level of abstraction above that, where you're playing not a specific character, but you are playing a character.
And you're leveling up and getting that character becoming more powerful.
But I was thinking that...
Does the player play as an individual character? Like a specific individual character?
Which is the Arkham approach. The approach I was thinking about, which is, do they play as a non-specific individual character?
So they're still playing a barbarian, a specific barbarian, who is leveling up and getting more powerful as time goes on.
Or do they play as a party? Do they play as a group?
Which has its own interesting mechanics then, because then...
If you are limited to, say, there's like six classes or something, and you're limited to taking three, you have to choose which combination of things you're going to take in your party.
You lose when your three dudes are gone.
But I was thinking, well then, that doesn't really... Depending on the scale of the combat system, I was thinking there could be three scales.
There's essentially three scales of... You could essentially do three scales of location.
Where you've got a world map location, which would be something like travel cards, you know, you're in the Moors.
Then you've got more like individual rooms or areas within that location, like you might be in...
The zone might be a specific dungeon.
It could be the zone's a specific dungeon, like the overall world map location is a specific dungeon.
Then the... Is it a particular dungeon?
Then each of the, like, locate next locations, so the location cards is like an area or room within the dungeon.
And then at the lowest level you've got your zones, where you've got, you know...
That's where combat actually takes place, where you've got, you know, it could be individual areas.
Say the... It could be like you're in a dungeon, you're in the Frostmire dungeon, Frost Hollow dungeon.
And there's a particular, you know, in the graveyard or the can room, or you're in the entrance hall, entrance, grand entrance.
That's the particular room you're in within the larger area.
And then when it comes to combat, when it goes to combat you have... You then place down your zone cards within that...
You place down your zone cards within that specific location within the grand entrance room, grand entrance cavern or something.
Locations would probably be like...
In Arkham the equivalent of... Would basically be the same as the locations in that first scenario.
And so basically that first scenario you play in Arkham would basically be...
The first scenario you play in Arkham would essentially be a...
One world map location, which is your house.
So essentially what it would be is that the world zone map locations are...
Well, I don't know. Like in scenario two where you are... In scenario two where you're in Arkham, one of those locations that you can go to is your house.
And that was the location from the first scenario.
So essentially that would be the world map location, your house.
Although then really the world map location would be Arkham. Anyway, I'm getting lost in the weeds here.
So having that zone combat would work when you're playing individual characters.
It wouldn't work if you're playing a party.
If you're playing a party of dudes, a group of people that doesn't work when you're at the sub-zone level.
You're literally thinking... You're walking around a combat map basically like you would in a period maledictum or something.
So...
Umm...
Walking around a combat zone.
That doesn't work if you're playing at the party level. It wouldn't go lower than the location rather than the zone.
Like you would be in the Grand Entrance Hall. And that would be it. And you'd fight there. It would be more like Arkham.
So that isn't necessarily a bad thing. But then I was thinking, well maybe a way you could get the benefit of both is either if you don't...
Maybe you... It's either one of two things. You don't actually play as a character.
You play as a settlement or a camp or a town.
And...
Play as a settlement or a camp or a town.
And...
Oh Christ. Ow.
Play as a settlement or a camp or a town.
Like a... Yeah. A settlement. Like a small settlement basically.
And you're either like... Which would change the nature of the game a fair amount.
It could be one of two things either. You actually play as the town.
In which case it's more of like... It's not a...
It's not a hero like adventuring game. It's like a... It changes the nature of the game quite a lot then actually.
You're going out to...
The cards would have to change and be like, you know, Expedition and stuff like that. It would be a much larger, a different scale of game.
Which is probably not what I want. The other option is that you do play individuals or you can play as parties.
Whatever it's up to. That can still change. But...
The progression is actually in your settlement.
So you play a character or characters who come from a particular settlement.
And you could have multiple different settlements.
The settlements could almost be like factions. Could almost be like colors or races or classes.
Actually that's a way to do the faction thing. You could have different classes and different settlements.
You come from this settlement.
Or it could just be generic settlement and you actually build... You have a settlement deck that you build up as you go.
Or you know, as you're progressing. It's not that individual character progressing.
It's the resources and knowledge and training of the settlement and of the town.
So it kind of has that... It gets that thing that...
Kindling Death Monster does where you are playing individual characters but they can just fucking die.
Because you have a whole group of other people to play.
You've got this whole population of the town basically.
Yeah. So that's some interesting stuff.
Some interesting thoughts.
Things to consider.
Actually, I realized if I am approaching it as like a...
Like a... Seasons or campaigns or arcs or something like that.
The first one could be...
Rather than you actually... Rather than you starting in...
Rather than you starting in...
Dawn or Sanctuary or Last Dawn or whatever the fuck the central... Like the main towns called.
You don't start there. You're in your settlement.
And you're actually trying to reach... You're playing adventures trying to reach that town.
They're trying to make their way through the wasteland to get to this mythical place.
Where things apparently still work.
Your settlements. Their farming is dying. Their crops are dying.
And they're constantly under attack and all this kind of stuff.
Or whatever it is. Your fortified settlement. Even just individual camp.
Depends on how big you want the scale to be.
And the arc of the first campaign or the first arc of the story.
If I want to make it episodic.
Is reaching... Getting to... Or the aim of the game.
What you're setting out to do from the beginning of the game is reach... Dawn.
Reach Sanctuary. Reach whatever it's called.
Haven. Whatever.
Which then has this overarching goal you're working towards.
It makes things episodic. It gives you that.
You can have Monster of the Week stuff. Individual content.
Side quests. All that kind of new open world exploration.
While also having...
So you're going out on supply runs.
And the goal is to reach Sanctuary.
Yeah. That's really cool actually. And then who knows what happens after that.
