really brutal weapons and I think the three damage is a good way to do that but depending
on how many other three damage weapons there are, I kind of feel like three damage most
small arms fire should be two damage. Yeah, most small arms fire should be two damage.
Some weapons like pulse rifles should probably be three damage. The squat, votan, pulse blaster
or what's it called, ion blaster should probably be three damage. Just particularly powerful
small arms fire and particularly brutal small arms fire. Like, our bolter is firing a fucking
missile that blows things to pieces. Like, that should be pretty fucking, pretty devastating.
Be a way you could do that and I think the three damage and the fact that having higher
damage means you get an extra bonus to wound. It could actually be rather than have higher
damage being an extra bonus to wound, it could be just natively having higher damage means
you get to reroll 12s to wound or something like that but you could also have a special
ability called like brutal X which means against X you can reroll wound rolls of whatever,
you can reroll wound rolls of 12. Whatever is you always, the one that is always fail,
you can reroll that. And then bolters could have like basically brutal against things
that aren't vehicles and so against their intended, so they're good against, they're still decent
against, they're still decent against, because they're three, well actually three damage
doesn't really help against space marines but because they're AP, because they're rending
one, they're still okay, they're all still like decent against space marines because
they still reduce their arm. They're strength four so they wound them on a four and they're,
they still reduce them by, they're saved by one. So they're still okay against big boys.
Like they're all round a decent weapon because of the rend one. Because the fact that they
have rending one means that they're like all round not too bad. The fact that they are
AP five and damage three means they are, they're basically made for killing fucking orcs. They're
a really brutal weapon that's made for killing orcs and they are devastatingly powerful against
squishy, things like guardsmen and shit like that. So yeah, they are, actually I was just,
but they're not amazing, they're okay but they're not, because they don't have the brutal
thing, because of brutal they're still good against space marines but because of, the
AP one means that they're okay against like vehicle, big vehicles and shit but because
they are, because they are, don't have brutal it means they are, they're made, particularly
made for killing infantry basically or like not vehicles and monsters.
