my war game, skirmish war game, thinking about how the advanced alien, the Predator rip-off,
could have a very, like a resource management gameplay centred around managing your systems
and your subsystems and your power, particularly managing, allocating power to your various
bits, allocating power to various bits, and managing that.
And having, basically you've maybe got like a finite amount of power, and different things
take up different amounts of power, different like modules or like pieces of equipment you
can use or whatever, they take up different amounts of power.
And also power plays into the kind of like, there's like emissions in detection gameplay
around power, so the more power you're producing, the easier you are to detect.
So maybe you have a set amount of power units you can either, or maybe not set them out,
you can choose the amount you're going to produce, perhaps.
You can choose the amount you're going to produce.
And you choose the amount you're going to produce, and the more you produce, the more
emissions you create, and the easier you are to detect.
And different items have different power requirements, energy requirements, and it
could be that you allocate them to different things, or you just kind of create a pool,
and then as you do stuff you use up that pool in order to do things, essentially.
That could even be like your activations.
Maybe the more power you produce, the more you can do in a turn, but the easier you are
to find, basically.
And the thing that put me onto that was the idea of them having a weapon that's like a
really big, powerful energy beam laser thing, or just a really big, powerful weapon.
I was thinking something they hold that just shoots out, like it's by far the most powerful
gun in the game, it just shoots out a ridiculous AOE beam that just hits everything, it automatically
hits everything, or it does a shitload of damage to everything, it hits super powerful,
but it uses an absolute fuckload of energy and basically disables their invisibility,
it turns invisibility off to use it, and they can't put it back on again for a bit.
That was the idea that kind of led me to that set of things.
And that then also led me to the idea that, you know, like I was talking about how detection
could be an important part of the game, and information deception and detection, but the
other side of that is emissions, which means that emissions and detection could be an important
part of the game in that maybe each different army, how it detects, puts, there's like different
energy signatures or different signatures that can be detected, like sound, heat, et cetera,
et cetera, and biological matter, whatever, and each race or each faction maybe detects
things differently, or they have strengths and weaknesses in different detection areas,
or they end or they create different emissions, like maybe the humans just are constantly
putting out heat emissions, not a huge amount, but a detectable amount that is detectable.
There's nothing you can do about that. Humans are always just putting out heat, unless you
do something, unless you die or you take, like maybe you can take a drug that lowers
your effectiveness but makes you, but makes you, lowers your temperature, your body temperature,
so that you're producing less heat, so you're putting out less heat emissions, or maybe
it's like a particular piece of equipment you can, they can use that dampens it, or
yeah something like that. Starts putting out heat signatures. There could be radio signatures
for when they talk to each other. You could either, for communication between your fire
teams you can either shout or use your radios. If you shout you produce a fuckload of audio
signals, otherwise you have to use your radios, which means that you're producing a lot of
radio wave signals, electromagnetic or something like that. Maybe the aliens or the corpses
put out a lot of biological signatures. Maybe they put out a lot of heat, maybe they put
out no heat, and they put out a lot of other pheromones and stuff like that. Maybe that's
how they communicate, through pheromones. Maybe that's how they detect, they detect
through pheromones, so they maybe really struggle to detect the invisible boy, just put out
any pheromones. All of that could play into it, that could be a whole fucking tactical
part of the game, is the cost benefits of doing things, but the emissions that create.
Yeah.
