Okay, so, assault, the assault rule is you can, you can, if you make a, if you take the
charge action, any models in, any models in the unit, or any, yeah, any models in the
unit, or, yeah, any models in the unit with, equipped with, you may make attacks with weapons,
weapons in, with the assault weapon, with the assault thing, but you get a -1 to hit,
maybe, and you, but however, in the close combat phase, you must use a, you must use
a, your close combat weapon in the, in the, the next combat phase, unless otherwise stated.
So you can shoot after charge, like, probably before charge, so before making the charge
move, you can shoot, before making the charge move, you can shoot, however, you get -1 to
hit, and you have to use your close combat weapon. So that's assault. And that's actually
probably present on a fair amount of things. Like, quite a lot of things should have that,
just not have the other things that make it work. So you can shoot on the way into it,
like, a lot of things can shoot on the way in to a, on a charge, but you then have to
use your shitty close combat weapon. Which means you generally don't want to do it.
Then there's the close quarter special rule, which is, if you are engaged in, if you are
ready and in the action phase, if you're already engaged in combat, you can still take the
shoot action, but you get -1 to hit. Well actually, no, you probably don't get -1 to
hit. You can still take the shoot action. However, in the next, actually, yeah, however
in the close, in the close combat phase, in the combat phase, in the next combat phase
after making attacks with this weapon, any model that makes attacks with this weapon
must use their close combat weapon profile. And then there's a third special rule which
is maybe like pistol or something, which is, if you have this special rule, if a weapon
that has this special rule and also has the assault or, assault and/or close quarters
ability, you don't have to use, you ignore the -1 to hit on the charge and, you ignore
the -1 to hit on the charge and, you ignore the -1 to hit on those attacks and you don't
have to use your close combat weapon. You can use any other weapon. You can use any
weapon. So basically, most pistols would have the assault, close quarters and, assault,
close quarters and, assault, close quarters and, pistol, special rule. Whereas a bolt
author probably has the assault special rule, a shotgun probably has assault and, probably
has assault and, it should also probably be like assault and close quarters and a number,
which is the amount that you reduce your hit roll by. So, assault 1, you reduce your hit
roll by 1, assault 2, you reduce your hit roll by 2, etc, etc. A shotgun probably has
close quarters and assault but doesn't have the pistol special rule. So you can shoot
it on the way in and you can keep using it in close combat but you have to use your shitty
close combat weapons, which is probably fine.
[silence]
