really hard to work out what kind of wound scale to use in, or how to achieve the effect
I want in the 40k that I want to redo. So my aims are to preserve the, mostly preserve
the way Toughness, I'm not saying preserve the way it works, but that same goal it has
of being able to easily differentiate between toughnesses I guess, but not have every change
in toughness always be meaningful for every target, or for every attacker. And it's really
hard to figure out how to do that while also, but I want to do that, but while also increasing
the scale, increasing the granularity, I want to make it a D12 system rather than a D6 system,
so it's basically just double the amount of stuff that you can get to. I was thinking
well you could try a system where rather than comparing strength versus toughness, and then
that comparison lets you, it's either like it is currently, it's either strength is equal
to toughness, if it's a 4+ etc. rather than that system, you could do the tough, the thing's
toughness is, the thing's toughness is what you, it's like the target number you have
to hit to wound, so you know, if a lasgun wins a guardsman on a 7+, then you'd have to have
something like, guardsman would be toughness 9, either be like a lasgun is, and sorry,
the toughness is what you're aiming to hit, what you have to roll on the dice, and the
toughness is what you have to roll to hit on the dice, and the strength is like an additional
one that you add to your roll. So like, if the gun, so say a lasgun has strength 0, and
the aim is for a lasgun to wound a guardsman on a 7+, so if a lasgun has strength 0, then
a guardsman would be toughness 7. If a lasgun was strength 1, a guardsman would be toughness
8, etc etc. So it actually basically becomes like, everything becomes like how vehicles
used to work, essentially. And that's kind of cool, but it throws the strength and toughness
scale out of whack. Rather than having like strength 4, toughness 4, you've got strength
0, toughness 7, kind of thing. And the other main problem with it is that it means every
point of difference between, like every one point of difference between strength and toughness
always makes a difference. Which actually means that the, it kind of limits the range
of the stat that's possible. And it also, it means you lose that really good thing that
40k does with its strength vs. toughness, where you've got some values don't matter
to other values. Like, if you're toughness 5, there's no difference, but if you're toughness
5, there's no difference to you for a strength 3 and a strength 4 weapon. They will all enjoy
the same value. And that's really good because it means toughnesses kind of create this,
they're going to create a range of other things that are good against them. Rather than, whereas
if you use this system, it'd be, strength 3 would still be worse, every point is meaningful.
And I actually think the way 40k does it is better. Because it means toughness 5 is, when
you're toughness 5, you're the same against it. So toughness 3 or toughness 4 is the same
against you. Strength 3 or strength 4 is the same against you. However, if you're toughness
6, suddenly, toughness 3 is, when you use half as effective. The difference between toughness
4 and toughness 5 means that strength 4 goes from when you're on a 4+ to a 5+, strength
5 goes from when you're on a 3+ to a 4+, strength 6 etc. So that's actually a really good system,
that's a really good thing to aim for. I'm trying to work out how to preserve that same
thing that 40k has, what it does, the goal it meets with strength vs toughness scale.
This is actually quite elegant, by having a really high toughness, by setting weak vehicles
to toughness 9, it automatically means you're already, like most small arms weapons, they're
going to really struggle to hit them, to win them. I want to enhance that difference.
I want to keep the same effect, I want to keep the same effect, but just increase the
scale so there's double the amount of things you can prop. So it allows there to be much
more gradient between things. You know, you don't have a space marine and an acrom warrior
and an orc and are all strength 4, that's all. Now it allows a little bit more radiation.
I don't know how to do that. How do you actually do that? No system I've tried to think of
so far has worked. I guess that means I actually did a pretty good job of it. Ah fuck it, this
is too far. I tried doing the same system, just having two times tough strength, but
rather than just same, more and two times, I had same, more, 1.5 times, 2 times, 2.5
times and 3 times. That's got a bunch of problems. Fucking hell, it means you have to do calculations,
which are actually quite difficult, especially the other way of doing it. If you're 2.5 times
less then that's actually quite difficult to do, but it also means toughness is starting
fucking ballooning. Yes, that doesn't work. I thought about, well maybe you could have
vehicles, like weapons, have a wound value. I thought actually that works quite well.
You could just have a gun wound on a 7+. Basically what, you've got a set hit value and a set
wound value. But that then has the problem of, that then has the problem, I tried to kind
of like, I just find out ways to make it work, where maybe you have a wound value but then
you've also got a strength and toughness value and then you can do the like, if strength
is more than this then you get minus one from your, if strength is equal to toughness, make
no change, if strength is greater than toughness, minus one from it. But then you just get the
same fucking issue. What I've just started thinking about is kind of have like a wound
value, like vehicles have, vehicles have like, rather than toughness you have a value that
the thing shooting at you needs to roll towards you. So maybe a Guardsman is 3+, a Space Marine
is 4+, a Tank is 5+, a Land Raider is 6+, etc. etc. But then, and then maybe like, Melters
have, um, Melters have a +3 to wound. Maybe guns have wound + wound values or + wound
values against certain things. +3 to wound against vehicles. Maybe they've just got +3
to wound in general. Um, yeah, a Laz Gun maybe doesn't have any, a Laz Gun is maybe a -1.
A Laz Gun's maybe a -1 wound. So you, whatever you already need to wound them, you have -1
from that. Actually that could potentially work. Let's think it through. We have like,
Space Marines have a toughness value of 8+, so anything that shoots at them has to, hits
on an 8+. Um, you could have, anything that shoots at them wounds on an 8+. Um, I can
throw the toughest fucking things around, like, Super Duper Land Raider, uh, Land Raiders,
let's say, maybe have a wound value of 11+. Um, and you could maybe have, guns could have,
like a Laz Gun could be nothing, but then -2 against, um, -2 versus vehicles, something
like that. But then that has the problem of like, something like, um, something like the,
uh, yeah, the strength versus like, comparing one number versus another number is a better
way to do it. I just can't work out how to make that scale work. It's the most elegant
way to do it, I just don't know how to make the scale work. Because, yeah, like that,
then you'd have corner cases, in that system I've just talked about. You'd then have corner
cases like the, um, what's it called? The Tyrant Guard, for example, which have toughness
8, which means you'd have to be, most, like, Bolvers and Laz Guns would be wounding them
on a 6+, or in this case an 11+. Um, but, if you were like -2 versus vehicles of a Laz
Gun, they're not vehicles, which means you'd still be, you would still be wounding them,
uh, Tyrant Guard on a 7+. Okay, that just doesn't, doesn't really work so well. Um,
yeah, I dunno. Well, no, because, yeah, a strength versus toughness is, something like
a strength versus toughness thing is the best way to do it. It's how to get that scale to
work. The thing I've come up with so far is keep the scale, like, keep the strength versus
toughness exactly the same, so it's still equal to equals 7+, 4+, 7+ in this case, um,
greater than equals, um, greater than equals 5+, 3+, which is 5+ in this case, and 2 times
equals 3+, and then it just lets you out, but then 3 times is, yeah, which, yeah, and
then, uh, 3 times is, if your 3, your strength is 3 times their toughness, you'd wound them
on a 2+. Um, if your strength is 3 times less than a third of their toughness, you'd wound
them on a 12+, wound them on a 12. Um, however, I dunno, like, would you keep the strength
and toughness scales the same? Like, the actual numbers, the stat numbers? I'm not quite sure.
And then you could have plus and minus 1s for things to fill out the rest of that, of,
um, strength and toughness and, uh, plus or minus 1 modifiers built into the, um, into
the weapons or into like, you know, maybe a bolter is strength 4, so keep the tough, keep
the wound scale the same, just, you know, increase the numbers, and then add a 3 times
on either end, keep the numbers the same, but then have something like, um, maybe bolters,
if, uh, no, 'cause then you've, yeah, it means you're skipping numbers. That, that,
that works well on the higher end, but on the lower end, when everything's hosted around
3, 4, 5, it means you're skipping numbers. A time scale means that it gets more, it gets
more radiation, the larger the strength and toughness. And it's clustered down the, down
the bottom, which means, you know, strength 4 is gonna be wounding toughness 3 on a 3 plus,
on a 5 plus, and toughness 4. It means 4's gonna be wounding toughness 3 on a 5 plus,
and toughness 4 on a 7 plus, which means you're just skipping 6 plus. So I don't fucking know.
Could double the scale, but then, um, numbers are just getting absurdly large, like, you
know, a landrider would be toughness 24. Something I've thought about is you could basically
minus 1 from everything, because toughness 1 is basically nothing exists, there's nothing
in strength and toughness 1. So, yeah, the lowest is strength 2, so you could just count
strength 2 as strength 1, 3 as 2, just reduce everything by 1, and then double that. So,
a guard would be 3, a guard would be 4, a guard would be 4, a marine would be 6, etc.
However, that still doesn't solve the problem of, um, skipping numbers. Sorry, no, it still
doesn't solve the problem of how to actually have the strength versus toughness scale.
The comparison scale work properly. Without doing the, like what I said originally, I'd
like the greater than 1.52, 2.53. Um, unless you did, I, a, what was it? You did something
like flat numbers, but increase the scale as it goes up. So, like, equal to, strength
equal to toughness is, wait, no, no, 7 plus, strength equal to 1, like, if your strength
is equal to toughness plus 1, win them on a 6 plus, plus 2, thing plus, then maybe like
a plus 4, plus 8, etc. Etc. Yeah, some rule that just makes this work is fucking difficult,
and it's making me realise actually that they did quite a good job with the strength versus
toughness scale. Really, the only thing I can come up with that works at all, that,
that, it's still not quite what I want, because you don't get the, you don't get the level
of gradiation that I want, easily. The closest thing I can work, I can think of is just keeping
the strength and toughness scale exactly the same. Um, and having win values go up by 2's
instead of 1's like, let's see, so hit values and win, and um, hit values and save values,
then you easily get that gradiation, but there's not an easy way to get that that I can see
in toughness. So the only other way, the other thing you could do would be to scrap the whole
fucking thing, and the whole hit-wound-save, throw that out and have a different system.
But that's more work and more complicated. I'm trying to think of a way to make the game
both less and more, or keep the toughness while also making the weapon, like, all the guns more
powerful. Um, because I kind of, I kind of want weapons to be more effective. I think it's to
blow stuff up quicker. But, um, for you to, for it to be easier to, or harder to kill stuff if
you play properly, or you play well, so it's like if you leave yourself open and you make bad
choices you can get fucking wiped. Um, whereas if you make better choices, it could be a lot harder
to kill your stuff. And I was actually, I was thinking actually, um, blast markers are a pretty
good way to do that. Blast markers and suppression are actually quite a good way to do that. Um,
yeah, it means you can focus fire. You can focus on, like, weapons. Yes, stuff is very,
is quite lethal, but rarely are things actually at their full capacity.
Very rarely are things actually at their full capacity.
Um, at the beginning of the game, yes, but as the game wears on, all of your stuff becomes less and
less effective. Because stuff like, you're like a blast marker to the king of light, etc, etc.
God, Epic is such a fucking elegant system.
So you think just adapting a bunch of things from Epic into 40k would probably make the game work
better.
