Then another special rule. So there's "rend", which is reduce their save characteristic
by the amount, by the number, next to the "rend". It'd be like "rend x" after applying
armour penetration. So it doesn't reduce it and then your armour penetration works on
it. Does your AP characteristic completely ignore their armour? Cool. If it doesn't,
yes, cool. If it doesn't, then AP has no effect on them, but then "rend" reduces their
overall save. Then there's another special rule, which is "rending wounds" with a number,
which is if you roll a critical wound, which is probably the same thing as currently in
40k, it's a 12 or the, I guess it's a 1, a 1 to hit is a critical hit, a 1 to wound
is a critical wound, so it's half the chance of currently. And
then you've got, yeah so "rending wounds" is on a wound, on a critical wound, um, on
a critical wound you, on a critical wound you reduce their armour by, their armour characteristic
by the, by x amount and it stacks with "rend". So you might have "rend 1", "rending wounds
3", so you just always are reducing their armour by 1, but if you hit a critical wound you're
reducing it by 4 in total. And then I think Eldar, like Shuriken guns should be a not
hugely damaging gun like a Balter is, it shouldn't be like an explosively powerful gun, but it
should be a very precision weapon, which means the hit values on them should be high, still
strength 4, but damage 2 rather than damage 3. And I think actually, yeah, look probably,
I don't actually know, I don't know if they should be, I don't know if they should be
high like super super armour penetrating. I think they should be like a really precision
weapon but I don't quite know what that means. Um, how do you make them a very precision
weapon? I'm not quite sure. Maybe they get an extra bonus to hit if they're within a
certain range. Um, not sure. Maybe the way you could make... actually I'm going to stop
