double the scale of everything. So Imperial Guardsmen have 2 health, Space Marines have
4 health, things that do, uh, Lazzgan does 2 damage, etc etc.
Strength and Toughness scale, use the same, exactly the same, so Strength and Toughness
stays the same, and the wound values stay the same. But D6s are changed to D12s, so
if Strength is more than the same as Toughness, it wounds on 7+, which is the equivalent of
a 4+, if it's greater than it, it wounds on 3+, uh, it wounds on 5+, which is the equivalent
of 7+, if it's double, it wounds on 3+, which is the equivalent of 2+, and if it's triple,
it wounds on 2+, and back the other way. So, um, Armour Saves and Weapons Skill, Ballistic
Skill work in, um, work in, you know, 1 point increments, you know, so you might have 8
to hit, 9 to hit, 10 to hit, 11 to hit, etc etc, same with Armour Saves, but wound values
go up by 2s, so 3, 5, 7, 9, 11. Um, so it maintains the same scale as currently. However, um,
if the damage of the weapon you're shooting, you're attacking with is greater than the
wounds value of the target, then you wound on +1. Although that then has the damage,
the problem of wounds being allocated to, um, having to be allocated to models for that
to work, which is a problem. Um, it also means characters are tougher, because they have
more health. Unless they actually don't have more health, and they've got like a secondary
health bar, or something, which is something I thought about, whether it's like Fate Dice
or Fate Points or something. Um, so damage goes to their Fate Points first, before it
goes to their, um, before it goes to their wounds. Yeah. And that way you can have stuff
like, um, orcs having 3 wounds rather than 2. So a superhero guardsman has 2 wounds,
a life gun does 2 damage. But, a, an orc boy has 3 wounds, and a bolster does 3 damage.
So a bolster will wound a orc boy on, um, the same as a space marine, if they have one.
So a bolter will wound an orc boy on a 4 or a 7, and will kill him in one hit. Will kill
an imperial guardsman in one hit, but will, um, yeah, kill an imperial guardsman in one
hit. But, um, that's lovely. And will kill an orc in one hit, but will wound, toughness
aside, will wound the imperial guardsman on an extra point. So it'll be 1A4+, 5+, because
it's greater than, strength is greater than toughness, and then +1 if damage is greater
than toughness, damage is greater than wounds. You could also just have like +1 to wound
against particular kinds of things, you know, like, um, maybe, melt is +1 to wound vs vehicles
and monsters, or something like that. You could have things that are smaller and weaker
than humans like brats be 1 wound. And, uh, like a flamer maybe does 1 damage, but does
double the amount of hits. So it's, does functionally the same against most things, but it can potentially
kill a lot more small things, really small things. And then maybe change a few things
so that there's a few, a few things that are smaller, basically. So a last gun is damage
2, a bolt gun is damage 3, a plasma gun on regular charge is damage 3, a plasma gun on
supercharges damage 5, etc. Space marines could even be 5 wounds, base not 4, so they're
like 2.5 wounds. Yeah. And then, like stuff like Reavers and things like that could be
4 wounds rather than 5. With morale, if you're going to do something like blast markers,
maybe you could have, maybe models could have a characteristic that is their, how many blast
markers it takes to suppress that one of those models. And then to break the unit, you need
to, you need to have, you count up the total of that stat in the unit. With movement, things
have three different movement values. They've got move, advance and charge, and each of
those is what is the value they use when they make those kinds of movement. Although I would
rather move be called something else. Maybe it's called, maybe the stat is called speed.
And you've got your move, advance, or it could be advance, march, and charge, or something
like that. And because charging, because running or marching is in the, you do that in the
action phase, because you do that in the action phase, it can be a separate value. So it can
be like, it could be like you might have, an Imperial Guardsman might have 6 move, and
then their run value might be, or their advance value, or whatever that's called, let's just
call it move, advance, and charge, their movement value might be 6, and their advance value
might be 4 plus D3, or something like that. Or, yeah, something like that. And charge
value could be like 2 plus 2D3, something like that. Yeah. Having a bit of randomness
in charge ranges is good, like, maybe it's 6 plus D3, or 5 plus D3, or something. And
then units that, things that currently have, things that currently have values, like things
that can charge after advancing, maybe just have a 6 extra on their charge value, so there
might be like, so if everybody, if normal people are 5 plus D3, then maybe, yeah, 5
plus D3, then maybe, the charge value would be 11 plus D3. And Eldar, so there's two different,
two universal special rules, one's, I dunno, one was called Assault, and I can't think
of another one, maybe like a Swift, or something. Let's just say, let's just say Swift for now.
Swift weapons, if you make a advance move in the action phase, you can, that unit can
also make a shot, and can fire with weapons that have, the weapons that have the, fire
with weapons that have the, fire with weapons that have the Swift special rule. Anything
like that, any weapon that has the Swift special rule can fire, but they have minus 1 to hit.
Then there's also Assault weapons, which can be fired when you, like if you make an Assault
move, so with Swift weapons, you can fire them after making a, you can fire them after
making a, advance move. You can, after making an advance, you can fire any weapons that
have the Swift special rule, and can, yeah, but can fire with, have it with a minus 1,
and then the Assault is you can fire it, maybe with a minus 1, maybe not, not quite sure,
either before or after shooting, before or after charging, that's Assault weapons, so
that's like pistols, pretty much all pistols would have, the charge would have that weapon
thing, so they can be shot fired on the way in, or at the end, yeah, maybe, not quite
sure, if the, yeah, probably would have to be fired before, realistically, otherwise
you'd be able to charge to get extra range and shoot with your pistols, which like, isn't
necessarily a terrible thing, yeah, maybe, and then Eldar either have, basically on all
of their weapons have a special rule, or maybe most of their weapons, or it's an army one,
I think it'd probably be maybe better to have on all their special weapons, or like on all
their weapons, it's a special rule that only they get, but it's on their weapons, which
is, instead of Swift, it's like, Eldar, Speed, or something like that, I can't fucking think
of a name, Eldar Swift, and it works the same as Assault, but you can fire before or after
making your Assault move, making your advance move, and they don't have the -1 to hit, which
means you can, that's what lets them do their hit and run, and their, and their advance
values are, or alternatively, it's an army wide special rule called like Battle Focus,
where they can fire their weapons before or after making, they have a different kind of
action they can take called a Battle Shift or something, which lets them move, make a
move of, I don't know, like 6 inches, or something like that, so they can move a 6 inches, and
they can fire their weapon, they can, and then, they can, and they can make an, also
make a shoot attack, shoot, they can also make a shooting action before or after making
that move. So when they take the shoot action before or after, before or after making this
focus move, they can, they can, when they take the shoot action they can do their focus
move, they can do a focus move of 6 inches before or after taking, before or after shooting,
something like that, and then their, and then their advance, and that's an army wide ripper
rule, and then their advance rule, advances are more than 6 inches, they're like 6 plus
D3, or 6 plus 2D3, or something like that, so they can advance, they can run really fucking
fast, which means that they can run if they want to get even faster, but they can't also
shoot unless they have assault weapons, and they still get -1 for shooting with swift
weapons, something like that.
