I'm finding myself getting a bit annoyed with Holly.
Um, and I'm getting a bit annoyed of coddling her.
Um, she's like very self-critical and like brings up things, which is you know, like
I'm sorry I do this thing and I'm like, and like she does and I'm like yeah you do do
that and it's fucking annoying.
Uh, and you're gonna fucking, if I say that you're gonna beat yourself up for it and like,
you know, fucking crack the shit, not crack the shit but like lose it.
Become very distressed for a pretty significant period of time.
Um, I'm tired of fucking tiptoeing around that.
You know, like I'm tired of tiptoeing around that.
I am getting frustrated with her because she's doing the same thing to me that she's saying
cat is doing to her and she's getting really frustrated about cat, that cat about and then
is doing, turning around and doing the exact same thing to me and has like no self-awareness
about it.
Um, and I'm just, I'm finding our conversations quite draining because it feels really one-sided.
It's like, it's mostly just her talking about stuff.
Her, you know, if I ever bring anything up it kind of just like gets lost in amongst
things.
And, um, you know, she never explores.
Anything I bring up is really like doesn't, isn't part of the conversation for very long
because she doesn't ask any questions about it.
She doesn't really seem that interested.
It's kind of just like, here's the thing I said and then she moves on and the conversation
moves on.
Like she doesn't really ask questions about what I think, she doesn't explore my opinion,
you know, like and I, I'll ask her things, you know, like we're talking about the truth
and I'm like, you know, okay, forget what other people think, what do you think?
And then she'll, you know, talk for 20 minutes about what she thinks and then won't at any
point inquire about my views at all.
So it's just, it feels really one-sided.
It feels like it's mostly her and when I say things, she mostly just either tells me what
she thinks about what I've said or tells me what I should do, like gives me advice.
I'm like, I just, neither of those are what I'm looking for and it's just tiring basically
being like, you know, and she just, she doesn't ask if she can talk to me about her problems.
She just comes to me exactly like she's saying cat does to her.
She just comes to me and starts talking about all of her fucking issues.
Like I don't, I'm not your fucking therapist, you know, and this is really one-sided.
She's literally saying cat does the same thing.
Like cat will just come to her and start talking about shit and then Holly will say, oh, you
know, here's how I'm, you know, I'm struggling a little bit with this thing and then cat
will be like, oh, that sucks and then go straight back into talking about her shit.
And Holly's doing literally the exact same thing to me and I find that really frustrating.
It's like frustrating of its own in the same way that it's frustrating to Holly what cat
is doing and then it's meta frustrating because the fact that Holly's complaining to me about
what cat is doing and then is doing the same thing to me that cat is doing to her and has
no self-awareness of it.
I'm just, I don't know, I'm getting a bit, I love Holly.
In the same way that Jaden fucking pissed me off when I was living with him, you know,
I still want to be friends.
It's not like this is, you know, I don't want to be friends with her anymore.
It's just like, it's really putting into perspective just, and I don't think this is, this isn't
something she, she's aware of this about herself and she doesn't really like it and she's trying
to change it but I don't really see her changing it very much.
She doesn't really seem to do much to change it.
And she's very, it's another thing she's really like uptight and self-conscious about.
She has this big complex about feeling selfish and as soon as I mention anything about it,
she will go and she'll spiral into "Oh, I'm such an awful shitty person, I'm so selfish."
So it's like, fuck's sake.
But yeah, it's kind of giving me a sense of why, part of why I struggle so much in our
relationship, like I really don't get what I need out of our conversations at all.
It feels quite draining.
It feels like mostly me caretaking her emotions and being there for her feelings and then
nothing back the other way.
Almost no interest.
Like I generally don't get the sense that she's particularly, it's not like she's like
just glazed, her eyes glaze over but I generally don't really get the sense that she's all
that interested in anything I really talk about.
She never asks questions, she never just explores any of it.
She kind of just like, "Oh yeah?" and then maybe tells me her opinion on what I've said.
Or if I say how I'm feeling, she just says, "Oh yeah?" and then "Here's what you should
do."
I'm like, "Okay."
I'm feeling very frustrated with her at the moment.
I still love her, I still like her as a friend.
She's a decent person and I still want to be friends with her.
I want to maintain contact in a relationship.
I think I have to maybe limit the contact a little bit more.
It's making me feel better about being like, "Oh, don't fucking call me every week."
Basically.
Because it's just this for an hour after work.
I'm like, "I don't want to do that."
So I'm probably going to say to her before I go, "Look, I know you call people a lot,
I don't like phone calls."
So we were calling like once a week or two before, I don't want to even do that.
Much less than we were already doing.
So feel free to call me if you want and I'll probably occasionally call you because I know
you do like calls.
I will put in the effort to make calls but it's going to be like probably once every
month or two kind of thing when I make call you.
If you're calling me every week, I'm not going to pick up because I don't like that.
And I find our conversation is kind of draining.
I'm not going to tell her that part but yeah.
That is because she doesn't necessarily need to hear it, she already kind of knows it.
But it's also like I don't want to deal with the emotional fallout.
I don't want to have to sit there with her for 40 minutes while she has a fucking breakdown
because I told her she doesn't really listen to me.
What happened when I told her her fucking breath stinks because she doesn't ever brush
her teeth?
I don't want to really have to deal with that.
I'm fucking depressed.
I already fucking am like seem to be one of her main sources of support and have very
little back the other way.
I don't really want to have to have a sit with her for 40 minutes or like have an extended
conversation about how she's a piece of shit because she doesn't listen while she beats
herself.
Like fuck.
I just want to tell you that you're annoying and go away.
It's gotten to the point where I'm like I still want to spend time with her while I'm
down here.
I don't want to spend all the time with her.
I want to do my own thing quite a lot.
But I'm getting to the point where I'm like I used to be really, I'm still frustrated
but I used to be really, I used to be quite upset and disappointed about it.
Now I'm like well I should maybe just stop expecting it because she clearly doesn't have
those skills.
So I can engage in conversation with her but I need to like be mindful of it that that's
going to happen and limit it a little bit rather than because quite often I was kind
of doing it more than I felt like I had the capacity for.
Conversations with Holly aren't comfortable in the way that they are with like Jaden or
Jeremy or Ryan.
She doesn't feel interested, doesn't feel like she's interested in exploring things.
It feels like she's mostly interested in telling me what she thinks about stuff.
She just yeah.
It feels much more one sided than my conversations with the other, those lot go.
The conversation with Jaden can feel quite one sided but also he actually like shuts
up and listens sometimes.
He does, she does listen sometimes.
She listened a bit last night when I was talking about how I was feeling.
She did do a lot of like explaining and suggesting.
She did listen a bit and she sent me a really lovely text yesterday and she was like "I
care about you, I hope you're feeling a bit better".
That was nice.
That meant a lot.
So it's not like she's a fucking complete, completely self centred narcissistic piece
of shit or anything like that.
It's like nothing like any of that.
She doesn't have the skills to and tends towards, she is self focused.
She doesn't know how to explore other people's ideas, she doesn't know how to ask questions.
She's self referential and that can be taken as selfish but it doesn't, it's not necessarily
like she cares about other people.
I think selfish is more like you don't care as much about other people, you care more
about yourself.
And she does care about other people.
Quite a lot actually.
But she's self referential.
Particularly in conversation.
She's self focused.
She struggles to think outside of her own, of herself in conversation.
And that can be tiring.
It is like the opposite of a good conversation for me basically.
But yeah, it's a bad combination with me because I'm very bad at putting myself out there and
I tend to like, and I like exploring.
I like meandering, questioning, exploring and she doesn't seem to like that.
She likes, this is the way it is.
Although that's also not entirely true, when it comes to poetry and emotional stuff, she
can be quite like exploratory in that sense and that's one of the things I really value
about her.
And that's why she's kind of like my poetry literature friend because she does have that
capacity but she doesn't have it in discussion in the same way.
If you're a bad person, it just means I need to be mindful of those things in conversation
with her.
I need to not expect those things.
I need to approach the conversations with her knowing that that's going to be the case.
And that I probably am not going to get what I necessarily want or need out of conversations
with her.
So I need to like, not like limited in a sense, be more comfortable with saying no I don't
want to talk to you at the moment I want to go do my own thing.
Self-flagellation gets really fucking tiring as well.
Especially when it's about things that she does do and are frustrating for me but it's
like I can't bring them up because then she's going to fucking fall apart.
God, no wonder our relationship was a fucking mess.
And then there's all the shit I bring to it, which is a bad combination with her shit.
But her shit alone is enough to be like fuck.
And one of that relationships was a pain in the ass.
Living down here, coming down here, being around her again with a bit of separation now and
also particularly living with her again has really shown me I don't ever want to do our
relationship again.
That's off the table.
That's not happening.
There's still part of me that's sad it didn't work out.
There's still part of me that's very nostalgic and sentimental about things, elements of our,
I still get little pangs of sadness and there's still a lot of things about her.
She's still very endearing.
She does things and says things in certain ways to make my heart go "aww" but I still
like, there are still elements of our past relationship that I have stored away in boxes
that are hard to confront.
But that's the past and it's like I still have sadness and nostalgia and sentimentality
about that and that it didn't work out but also at the same time I'm like but also no,
I don't want that relationship basically.
I have less rose tinted glasses on now.
I still do have quite a lot of fun with her.
We have got quite good banter when I kind of relax into it.
So there's definitely a lot of aspects of our friendship that I enjoy.
It's not quite, we don't have quite the same, she thinks we have a very similar
sense of humour.
I don't agree as much.
My sense of humour is much, I feel much closer in sense of humour.
Shared humour is much easier with like Jaden and Jeremy and Jordan than it is with Holly
and she's, again, another thing she's very uptight about is like being funny.
So that's another hard thing, it's a little bit hard to navigate.
Another thing I can't really tell her, I feel like I can't really tell her, it's like "well
yeah like you are funny sometimes, you're not fucking, you're not a joker."
You come out with some pretty fucking hilarious things but I would describe you as an overall
funny person.
That doesn't mean you're boring or the opposite of funny but you're not, it's not either
you're funny or you're the complete opposite of funny.
You're funny sometimes.
Just like I'm funny sometimes, I'm not always funny.
And her sense of humour annoys me a bit sometimes.
She can be very silly and I don't really, and kind of immature a bit sometimes and I'm
a little bit like that in some ways, goofy, but also partly like, also because I don't
share some of that, there's parts of my humour I don't share with her because she would get
upset.
Things I find funny that she just finds like outrageous kind of thing.
So I'm not, I parcel myself out a bit to her and she probably does the same to me.
That's any friendship really.
And that felt really bad in a relationship because I was still doing that and that's
also like a little bit of an element of like showing me that that's kind of what I need
from a relationship, it's a bit more capacity to do that in a relationship and I didn't
get that as much as I needed or wanted in our relationship.
I got it more than I'd ever had with anybody ever so it was still like, holy shit, this
is amazing, but then kind of also was getting smacked in the face with the ways in which
that didn't, wasn't giving me what I needed and wanted.
So yeah.
I think I need, when I have another serious relationship, I need somebody who is, I have
a few more shared things with like, our values kind of like don't align a lot in some ways.
They do a lot, they do in some others, but there's some like, I think some of our core
values don't really align.
Our humour aligns in some ways but kind of really doesn't in others.
I kind of have to only present parts of myself, I can only present parts of myself to her.
And I want more than that in a relationship, in a serious relationship.
So this has been good, it's like information about what I actually want, basically.
It's a little difficult to kind of admit some of these things but it's also like, that felt
catastrophic in our relationship.
Fuck off.
Yeah, that felt catastrophic in our relationship whereas now it kind of just feels a little
sad and it still feels a little bit bad.
Like I kind of wish it wasn't the case and it's part of me that there's leftover vestiges
that are kind of like, I wish I didn't feel like that.
You know, I do want to be here.
But it definitely feels different too.
But yeah, I can understand why I felt, why I felt things felt catastrophically bad in
our relationship when I felt like that and while being in a relationship, my first relationship.
Some of this would be easier, it's difficult as well, I've been finding myself comparing
my relationship, my friendship with Holly to my other friendships but it's difficult,
that's difficult to do because it's not the same context at all.
We were previously partners and also, you know, I haven't really had the experience
of being friends with her in the same way that I'm friends with my other friends.
I was in a relationship with her and then since we stopped being in a relationship and
kind of sort of started moving towards friendship, we have been in different states, which in
those instances I basically would barely talk to friends like that or by that we like lived
separately.
I mean, I could compare it I guess to living with Jayden previously, which, I mean there
is some similarities to be honest.
I find myself wanting to hang out with her less than I do with other friends, which,
you know, it'd be different if we were living separately and I was just like down here and
we were just caught up like, you know, a couple of times a week or once a week or whatever.
Yeah, I think I'm realising in any future relationship I want to have, I want to be with somebody
who I have a bit more, a bit more, there was a word I fucking had just before I turned this
on, fuck a motherfucking word was but it was the perfect word for what I was thinking.
I want to have more, not quite agreement, not quite concordance, not quite resonance.
I want to have more, wait, fucking what?
I want to have more in common, more shared values, more shared ways of seeing the world.
I feel like there's quite a lot of not that between Holly and I, like we see things very
differently in some ways.
I want, or maybe not necessarily see it the same way, but they, like not necessarily they
think or see the same way, but they can understand my point of view and listen to my point of
view.
I don't really get, feel like I get that from Holly.
She's very opinionated, she has very strong, she's had very strong ideas and opinions about
things and has like quite strong moral things attached to certain opinions.
And we see the world very differently and I don't really feel like there's a lot of room
for exploration with Holly.
I think I want somebody, I want to be with somebody who's, who there's a bit more, that's
a bit closer together, that works a bit better.
A bit more shared, a bit more of a shared worldview I guess.
Our worldviews are quite different, Holly and I's.
Like Shalom Ozelander talks about, a straight jacket for two.
However, that might be difficult because I feel like I, the way I see the world, my views
tend to be quite different to a lot of other people's.
I'm quite, I feel quite contrary, not that I'm setting out to be contrary, I mean I am
a little bit in some ways, but I just, I always feel like I'm, I disagreeing or I'm like,
I'm in between everybody else.
I'm never, it feels fairly rare that I find somebody and I'm like, "Ah, I know what you're,
I'm on your wavelength!" kind of thing.
I tend to find people, like, and their views frustrating.
Like, you're not really thinking about the bigger picture here or you're not seeing this
other point of view.
Maybe I just need to find somebody else who's empathic, very empathetic and good at taking
other people's points of view.
So that's what I need.
[music]
