She's making a link, explicit link between logical positivism and behaviourism in psychology.
She's basically saying behaviourism is like, almost like logical positivism applied to
psychology.
Apparently, Karnap and Neurath, who are both big parts of the logical positivists, the
logical positivists of the Vienna Circle, apparently they saw their work, or they saw
the circle as kind of connected with other groups, and they saw particularly a connection
with the Bauhaus, the design group, or design company.
I don't really know what the Bauhaus was, but yeah.
Which means logical positivism is very intimately related with modernism.
Interesting, apparently there are elements of, in Gödel's Nuclosse, there are elements
that suggest he was resentful of Ludwig Wittgenstein.
Interesting, so I think she's saying, basically turning this into almost like a Wittgenstein
versus Gödel thing, because she's saying, "I'll just play it."
Ignore that bit.
Interesting.
Given the importance of Wittgenstein to philosophy in the 20th century, and also to my philosophical
heritage, as much as I can be said to have that, that's a really interesting point.
At least she openly says, "This is my interpretation of Wittgenstein," basically.
She believes each was a thorn in the side of each of the other's mathematics.
No, sorry, meta-mathematics.
So yes, Wittgenstein was born in and does come from Vienna.
Interesting, so she's now going into Wittgenstein's background and how he was born in Vienna
to the Wittgenstein family, who were like the Austrian version of the Rothschilds, basically,
and that he learnt about Russell's paradox while as an aerospace engineer in Berlin and
went to go talk to Russell about it.
She talks through Russell's paradox about the set of all sets that don't contain themselves
and talks about how paradoxes are often a sign, like a canary in the coal mine, that
hits somewhere that's deeply problematic and like a fissure in the foundations.
She says Russell's paradox was deeply catastrophic, basically, for the foundations of mathematics.
She says Russell's paradox was an enormous problem, particularly for Freig, Freig, however
you would say his name, because he'd just finished, I think it must have been towards
the end of his career because he was like the generation before Russell, he'd just finished
his work on basically turning maths, basing maths on logic.
And she says his system was, because he included the set of all sets that don't contain themselves,
his system was inconsistent, which she says is the worst thing any formal system can be,
because it means if a system is inconsistent, it means you can prove anything in it, which
means that you essentially can't prove anything. If you can prove anything, then it means you
can't prove anything, because everything goes.
A formal system that's inconsistent is essentially worthless as a form of formal proof, which
is interesting because I kind of thought, maybe I misunderstood, misunderstanding, but
I thought Russell, I thought what's his face is what's his face, I thought Gödel's theorems
basically showed that all systems will always be, there's always the possibility of them
being inconsistent or something. No, I think it's, they can be consistent, but if they're
consistent, it's something else. They're either inconsistent or they're consistent
and fall down somewhere else.
I'm going to explain why you can prove anything with an inconsistent system, which is cool.
I'm going to have to probably listen to it several times, she talks about modus ponens
as part of it. Apparently the propositional logic of Principia Mathematica was basically,
they basically created that, I think because of Russell's paradox. Russell's paradox basically
shot Freig's system to pieces and then after discovering the paradox, Russell was like
well fuck and him and Alfred North Whitehead set about constructing the propositional logic,
first order logic or whatever it's called. I think the town happened, although I always,
I thought that it was the other way around, that he finished Principia Mathematica and
then discovered the Russell's paradox and was like well fuck, there goes all that. So
yes, after the Russell's paradox and the destruction, basically the end of Freig's
system because Freig admitted sets, because of Russell's paradox, Freig's system which
allowed sets that don't contain themselves or the set of all sets that don't contain
themselves, Principia Mathematica, the system in Principia Mathematica, they just arbitrarily
decided, I think, I'm going to listen to it a little bit more, because they arbitrarily
decided the set of things so that they can secure consistency. They arbitrarily imposed
rules on the creation of sets by having their theory of types where a type one is an object,
a type two is a set of objects, a type three is a set of sets and onwards, like type four
is a set of sets, etc. etc. and they imposed the rule that they just arbitrarily, well
not arbitrarily, it wasn't arbitrarily, it was two for a very good reason, but it was
just like, it doesn't stop the underlying thing from being there, but they just said
you can't, a set, a thing can only be part of the higher levels of types. So a set cannot
be part of an object. An object can be part of a set, but a set can't be part of an object.
A set can be part of a set of sets, but a set can't be part of the set of itself. They
basically just essentially created things, created a new rule that said the Russell's
paradox set problem can't apply. You can't, you're not allowed to have sets that contain
themselves, because you can only have sets that contain, you can have sets that contain
sets, but you can't have sets that contain themselves. F*cking hell. So they called this
set of rules the theory of types, but the problem was there isn't actually, there's
no theory there, they just came up with the rules. There's no reason for those rules
to be there, they just arbitrarily set them to get around Russell's paradox. Apparently
one of the rules, so related to this, one of the rules of set theory is that you can't
form the universal set, which is the set of all sets. It's the one set that contains
all sets, because of Cantor's paradox, which is that Cantor discovered that I think it's
the power of the, the power something of a set always has a higher cardinality than the
set. I can't quite remember what cardinality means right now. I learnt about it and they
talked about it in the other book, audio book, but if you have, yeah, so if you have a, if
you have the universal set, the set of all sets, then you, the power, the power, then
the power that you would, if you had a power set of the universal set, it would be greater
than, have a higher cardinality than the universal set. So apparently the laws of set theory
say that you can't form the universal set, which is another, seems like it's just another
hack thing. So they basically, so they came up with the set of all, so Whitehead and Russell
all came up with the, the system in Principia Mathematica. They used their arbitrary adhoc
theory of types that has no grounding, they just used it because if they don't, the system
doesn't work, because it allows in Russell's paradox and breaks everything. And they were
like, they basically, they were upfront about that, they were like, yeah, the theory of
types isn't actually a theory, it's not based on anything, we just have to do it, otherwise
the theory, the whole system won't fail. And then they basically challenged the world,
the rest of the world of logicians and mathematicians to come up with a less arbitrary set of rules,
and like a reasoning, a reason to disallow paradoxical sets formation basically. And
it was that challenge that they set, which I think was at the end of their career basically,
so that's how they ended their career, was like, well, we're fucked, so somebody else
fix this. So at the end of, yeah, yeah, and it was that challenge that they set that,
that's what drew Wittgenstein, that's what drew him into philosophy, that's what made
him take the step away from engineering into to go see Russell in Oxford. It was that challenge
to come up with a less arbitrary rule set.
How Bertrand Russell's uncle was a Prime Minister. So apparently Wittgenstein, she's
going through and talking about parts of the Tractatus, and pointing out that it basically
means, but basically a fairly strong evidence that Gödel and Wittgenstein's beliefs, I
guess, about maths and logic strongly diverged, basically were opposites. And apparently Wittgenstein
never accepted the, what do they call the theorems, Gödel's theorems, the incompleteness theorems.
Apparently never accepted those. He never accepted that Gödel had proved, he never
accepted that Gödel had proved what he did, basically.
Interesting, so she's saying that Wittgenstein, even between, despite the change between earlier
and later Wittgenstein, he remains committed to the fact to the idea that everything in
mathematics follows from following, like is a consequence of following rules, or happens
through following rules.
She also says later Wittgenstein is like postmodern adjacent. There's a very blanket way of looking
at things, I think. And I'm also kind of suspicious of her interpretation of Wittgenstein. She
says that, what's his name, fucking, Wittgenstein is, unlike the Vienna Circle, the scientifically
minded philosophers who drew on him, he's paradox friendly. He doesn't think a paradox
is a, instance is like a sign that everything's gone horribly wrong.
