officially back in Brisbane. It's 8.10 at night, and I have just passed through the
city. Looks like Queens Wharf is open, which is pretty cool. Might as well go check it
out, or at least it's going to be open very soon. But yeah, back in Brisbane. I don't
know how I feel. Mostly I feel tired, and like I want to get out of this fucking car,
but yeah. I don't really feel like a sense of homecoming, or like "ah, yeah, nice and
home". I mostly feel a sense of mild, what is it, mild, familiar, contempt, mild contempt
arising from familiarity, basically. Basically just drove back in, and it was like "meh,
I don't really want to be here". Which is probably a pretty strong indicator. I'm very
much looking forward to being home though, although I'm like looking, I'm interpreting
forward into time a big feeling of loneliness and sadness because I'm coming home to an
empty house after having just been, after having left Holly behind, after having left
Melbourne, leaving a household, like a full household. Yeah. Kind of not looking forward
to being home at the same time, but also am, because I really want to fucking get out of
this car and just be done with this drive. Kind of not looking forward to getting back
to regular life though, as it was before Melbourne. Being in Brisbane, going to work four days
a week, etc etc. Not really looking forward to that. Even though I didn't really do much
with it, there was much just a sense in Melbourne of possibility, I guess, and like particularly
with the philosophy stuff, even though I actively didn't do stuff because I wanted to get out
and do shit or where I was playing games, there was like this energising "I can go out
and do philosophy out and about and I can really do it and I really want to do it and
go exploring", whereas I don't feel that at all here. Yeah, I don't know. But it's kind
of weird to be back. I'm driving through, just about to drive past New Farm, er, New
Stead, New Farm, the other one. New Market. Just about to drive past New Market. And it
feels weird. It's like simultaneously I'd never left and also revealing how much I don't
want to be here. Like everything's different and also nothing's different at the same time,
I guess. Tried looking at it as a tourist. And I can't. I just can't. As I was coming
back into the city I was like "Right, I've been looking at things as a tourist and being
kind of all in wondering and being like "Oh, cool!" and let's see if I can keep that mode
going while I get back into Brisbane". And as soon as I was back in Brisbane it was all
just evaporated instantly. And it's just like "Ah, yes, Brisbane". My old way of seeing
things just immediately flipped back into place. Jesus Christ, the weather is so different
here. It's not hot but it's already fucking humid. I can feel it in the air. I can almost
feel the water on my skin compared to what it was like in, I almost like now can't remember
what it was like in Melbourne. But very notable the difference in how I felt arriving in Melbourne
and how I felt arriving back in Brisbane. I was like fucking, I was quite down. I looked
for a lot of the journey down. Like I was quite depressed for a lot of the journey down
but arriving in Melbourne, even though like experience of driving through the highways,
I was like fucking ecstatic. I was almost high when I first arrived at Holly's place.
And I did not feel like that at all getting back here. God, Melbourne is so much nicer
than Brisbane. Even the inner suburbs. Now that I've done both. Even the inner sub. Like
I've just driven through fucking like Kelvin Grove and New Farm and all those, not New
Farm, New Market. Even those areas are like, you know, the equivalent in Melbourne. I
mean the distance from the city is so much fucking nicer. Old buildings everywhere and
the tree-lined streets. It's just something shabby about Brisbane. I mean a lot of shabbiness
depending on what, maybe shabby is the wrong word. I don't know how to put it. It's a
particular, you know when I think of Brisbane I think of like shitty old Queenslanders.
Kinda thing. All those shitty old brick houses. It's interesting that my familiarity with
Brisbane doesn't breed contentment and comfort. That it breeds contempt. You know like I'm
sitting next to Kedron Brook. Just the area of Kedron Brook. Just before Stafford and
after Alderley. Somewhere I've been many times and it's really quite lovely and I just feel
like ugh, this place. Rather than yeah, I know this place. I like this place. I love
this place. I've got some memories here. I feel the opposite of that. I wonder why that
is. It's just always going to be the case for me for anywhere I spend an extended amount
of time. I'm always just going to get tired and contemptuous, tired of and contemptuous
towards and not feel like a rootedness and an at-homeness and a feeling of like, you
know, I'm putting down roots and being like this is my place. Am I not going to ever feel
that? I hope not. Fuckin' hell this road work's taking forever. I think my depression is going
to get worse being back here. Cos I just have no desire to do anything here at all. Other
than see my friends and go and do philosophy and do 3D printing and play games. That's
it. I just feel so little connection to this place. I really don't know if I'm going to
last the six months until next year to go to the UK. I really don't know if I'll last
that distance. I may need to leave earlier. We'll see. We'll see how we go once I'm actually
back and settled in and working and seeing my friends again and getting it back into
3D printing and all that stuff. Maybe it'll keep me going for a while. I've got games
to play. Maybe that'll keep me going. Keep me distracted, medicated long enough to get
through being here while I save up some more money. My feel on being back here is close
to despair actually. That's a really good sign. That's a really, really good sign. I
don't feel any kind of like "Yay, I'm home!" after getting back. Not home, home. I'm not
at home yet. Which is generally the place in Brisbane I've loved the most. It's home.
Although despite also never wanting to be there. Yeah.
Despair, hey? I'm clearly very ready to leave. Being back here also retroactively shines
a very good light on my time in Melbourne I guess. In some ways I didn't enjoy myself
a lot while I was there because I was feeling really shitty. But looking back from the vantage
point of here, fuck it was great. It was really, really good. Being in Melbourne was fucking
fantastic. And I'll miss my little room, my little setup with my desk and my laptop.
I'm snuggling into my little single bed. Kind of miss the house in Hope Street. I miss
Holly. I didn't add, like I'm constantly, the entire time I was there, not the entire
time but like definitely for the last couple weeks I've been like "Ugh, I'm sick of you.
I'm really looking forward to going home so I don't have to deal with your shit anymore."
And now I miss her. The grass is always greener. It's a comfy little living room. And being
so close to things. Yeah. I kind of miss it. Well kind of. I miss it. Not home yet though
so let's see how I feel when I get home. Kind of surreal to doing the, you know I'm just
driving, just driving past Woolies and I'm driving down like, um, the main road, going
towards the roundabout. It's kind of fucking surreal doing the trip I do, you know, the
drive along the road I always drive. I've driven along so many times but it's like at
the end of a ten hour drive up from Sydney. It's like, it feels like I've never left but
at the same time this is directly like, I have just been driving for ten hours, I haven't,
I've stopped but like, I've paused. But yeah, it's weird. It's a weird feeling. I'm driving
behind the 359. Definitely well and truly home. Home again, home again, diggity dig.
Things have changed in the front yard quite a lot since I left. Not quite a lot but it
looks, the tree out the front has leaves all over it and it's quite gorgeous and all the
flowers in the front yard are blooming and it's also gorgeous. It smells beautiful out
here. I do love the sound, the night sounds here. Home again. I don't like the smell at
the inside of this house and I really don't like the lights. I kind of wish mum and dad
were here. It's kind of weird coming home to an empty dark quiet house.
I kind of wish they hadn't gone to Melbourne and I came home and they were here and I could
talk to them about the trip.
Yeah well, okay it's pretty nice seeing my room again. It's so tidy. My former stuff's
there and a big comfy bed. My desk. Maybe it's pretty nice to be home. I think I'm going
to talk to mum and dad about changing these light bulbs. At the very least I'm going to
change the light bulb in my room. I fucking hate it. It's like the sun.
