me here in Sydney. I just walked along Botany Bay. I don't know what it's called, but it's
basically where Captain Cook landed in Botany Bay. It's basically the first landing of the
Brits in... first time the Brits set foot on Australian soil. And it felt, despite all
of my feelings about... negative feelings about Australia, it still really hit home,
and it still really... that kind of like idea of moving forward as this, you know, with
reconciliation and moving forward into a better future together sort of thing, I think still
has promise. Despite all of my negative feelings around all of this stuff, and just my kind
of negative feelings for Australia in general, there's still something there for me to integrate
whatever it is that's why I feel that way and move beyond it, to synthesise it. And
I think I need to get out of Brisbane, but I don't think I'm necessarily done with Australia.
At some point after being in the UK for a while, I think maybe I want to come back and
maybe try living in Sydney for a bit, and I was for the... almost the first time starting
to connect with the history there. I don't usually connect with Australian history, but
I was starting to connect with the history there. And I think the relationship of it
to British history, I think I connected to that as well. It's almost like I want to go
to the UK and immerse myself in that and the culture there and the history there and, you
know, piece all that together and then come back and actually pay attention to or actually
kind of immerse myself in the history here and fit that into place into the larger picture.
And I still think, and there's a part of me that still wants to, not even really a part
of me, I would like to at some point in my life integrate traditional knowledge. Like
I think Aboriginal and Australians' viewpoints are important and I'd like to hear them and
I'd like to integrate them. Yeah, I don't really know how to put it beyond that, but
that actually really hit me. That hit me, that actually affected me quite a lot going to
Botany Bay. And it showed me, I think, just my feeling, today's feeling, how I felt today
about Sydney coming in and now after going to Botany Bay, I think there's still space
for me here in Australia. And I think I'd like to check out Sydney. I think I'd like
to live here for a little bit. But not for a while yet. UK first. We'll see what happens
after that. I've felt connected to Australian history and, you know, Aboriginal Australian
history and culture, European Australian history and culture. I don't feel connected to those
things. I've felt disconnected from Australian, like, kind of white Australian culture, like
that's the point of a better word. Anglo-Australian culture. European descended Australian culture.
I've never felt connected to that. And I've had respect for Aboriginal Australian culture,
but it's like felt like it's not for me. Like I'm not part of it, I can't be part of it.
It's a thing that's separate to me. It's not a home for me, basically. And that might still
be the case, but I don't know. I felt something today. I still don't feel very connected to
like a lot of modern or just in general like Australian culture. Things I have seen as
being Australian, like sports, the beach, alcohol, football, barbie, I mean I do like
barbies and all that kind of stuff. I've just never really connected. It's always,
Australian culture has always felt very shallow to me. Very shallow, very, almost like non-existent
to be honest. Well I guess that's what the shallow is. There's so little of it. And just,
yeah, I don't know. And it just like laid back laziness is like most of the culture
sort of thing. And that's just like, well, I mean I do like parts of that. I do like shallow,
laid backness. I like that. It's a cultural and character trait that I value. But that's,
I sometimes feel like that's all there is to Australian culture. Today is proof that
you cannot fucking trust how you feel about projections into the future. Like I have all
these kind of doom and gloom projections into the future of going to the UK and I'm going
to go there and feel like shit still. I'm projecting how I feel now into the future
or how I feel at those moments into the future. Or kind of more of an overall trend I guess
of how I have been feeling into the future. And like I would not have expected coming
today, like that today would, given how I've been feeling on this trip, I would not have
expected to feel today how I did. Today has felt incredibly, very freeing. It's felt very
hopeful. And it's felt kind of reconnecting in some ways to Australia. I would not have
thought that at all based on how I was feeling most of the time I was in Melbourne. So all
these kind of doom and gloom kind of future ideas I have of how I'm going to feel when
I get to the UK, I need to, based on how I have been feeling and also based on knowing
that my problems aren't going to come with me and that I haven't really resolved the
"what the fuck do I do with my life and my future" or any of that stuff. But you've no
idea how you're going to fucking feel, really. All sorts of things can happen that you would
not, you would not, are not even in something you would consider. So I'm going to keep doing
that like that's what it is to be human, to project into the future, but it's important
to not let it shape what I actually do. And to try to remain open to things and to the
world and to the way things are and not project doom and gloomness or the way I think things
will be onto it. Which granted is really fucking difficult to do.
[Music]
