So it's been my first day back home.
Um, and yeah actually this house is really lovely.
It's fucking lovely weather at the moment.
It's just like sunny but not too hot.
It's not super duper fucking, it's like a little, I mean it's on the way back up I definitely
felt the humidity but either I, it's not as humid today or I've adjusted to it because
today it just feels fucking gorgeous.
All the flowers in Mum's garden are blooming and it smells fucking amazing.
A lovely sunlight catching on all the leaves in the backyard.
It's nice and quiet.
It's a soft wind.
I feel really relaxed and peaceful.
I like, had a pretty decent sleep and now I want to, it's like I'm tired but I'm not
tired because I didn't get enough sleep kind of thing.
It's like I've slept in and it was fucking amazing waking up in my bed.
It was so nice.
It's like I'm tired because I'm peaceful and feel safe and kind of just want to go back
to bed because my body needs more sleep.
So it's like I had enough but I also want more.
It's not like that usual feeling, it's like, it's not the usual feeling of like oh I'm
so exhausted.
It's like a contented drowsiness rather than like a oh I can't, I mean I am very tired.
I can struggle to function a bit but it's not like the usual oh, feel bad.
It's like a, yeah, a lazy contentedness of just like it's lovely.
I'm listening to the leaves rustle in the wind.
It's gorgeous weather.
It's nice and quiet and peaceful and comfortable here and I kind of just want to lie down and
nap.
It's really nice.
It's like I've somehow stumbled into, back into a mode that I used to feel actually pretty
often here and that has been completely alien to me for like a couple years now.
I haven't felt like this in a while.
It's really lovely.
Just a contentedness with where I am right now in this moment.
The springtime weather here is fucking amazing.
Man, I'm really going to appreciate the weather here when I come back from the UK.
Jesus.
I think I feel more, either more rested or more able to rest today than I have in the
entire time I was in Melbourne.
I don't think my time in Melbourne was particularly restful.
There's a lot of internal pressure to get out and do things, to go experience Melbourne
while I was there.
Maybe I'm better, more able to rest in Brisbane because there's not really anything I want
to do so I can just kind of like chill, I guess.
Yeah.
Maybe if I go back to three days a week at work, and also the fact that I'm on holiday
still and I don't have to, I've just asked RB for tomorrow off so I know I've got tomorrow
off as well.
So I'm like not in back into work mode yet.
Yeah, maybe if I can get back to doing three days a week I'll feel pretty rested while
I'm here.
But I don't know if that's what I need, perhaps what I need is to work hard, make money before
I go over to the UK.
Who knows, maybe I don't think I'm going to find the UK particularly restful though,
so does it make space for it?
Having said that, it is different from Melbourne because I was only in Melbourne for a short
time where I'll be in the UK for a while.
Feel a bit like how people kind of talk about feeling when they go to like resort, beachside
resorts.
Just kind of like contentedly sleepy.
It's nice.
Although I am also kind of feeling a bit of the urge to do lurking at the edges.
Really looking forward to eating like one of my salads, my fresh salads.
Really looking forward to that actually.
I think I can probably enjoy my time here before I go if this feeling extends at all.
And the feeling is partly based on the weather to be honest, so if the weather holds I might
be able to enjoy my time here before I go.
We'll see.
I really don't like work very much, especially going into work.
Having been, obviously while I was down there I was thinking like oh I actually kind of
like the cold weather because you can like dress up and I can wear clothes that I actually
like etc etc.
And then now as soon as it gets to today I'm immediately like no actually I really like
my tropical dress.
Wearing these loose shorts and these baggy t-shirts and long over shirts.
I like it.
Maybe those two months away was actually enough to refresh my okayness with being in Brisbane.
I feel once it starts working again I guess.
Maybe it has reignited my interest in getting out at about a little bit, or at least the
areas around Brisbane because that drive back up, driving back up and particularly going
past through the Northern Rivers, fuck the area around Brisbane within about two hours
north and south of Brisbane is fucking gorgeous.
Like the Northern Rivers is fucking gorgeous, Sunny Coast is fucking gorgeous.
I actually really like the green rainforesty areas.
I think that might be my favourite parts of Australia and they're all kind of around Brisbane.
Brisbane area, or exactly around Brisbane itself is kind of there, but a bit further
out, bam.
Brisbane does somehow feel more relaxed than both Melbourne and Sydney.
Maybe it's the weather, because it's like, it's the kind of weather that makes you just
kind of want to like sit around.
I'm a little bit taken aback actually about how I feel at the moment.
It's like really unexpected, especially how I was given how I was feeling last night.
Just feels pleasant here.
Just feels lazily, contentedly pleasant.
Yeah.
Is this how Jono sees this place?
I hope this persists, because if I could feel like, kind of like hold onto this way of seeing
and feeling until I go, or at least for a while, that'd be fucking nice.
Also Queens Wharf is open and it looks cool.
Might have to check it out sometime soon.
Kind of feeling how I used to feel, like how I wanted to get out with the boys all the
time and have barbecues.
That's kind of how I'm feeling at the moment.
I felt when I got back from Korea.
I'm appreciating Brisbane right now.
But also like at the same time I'm like, Melbourne was lovely and I really liked it, and I would
live there.
And I liked actually, well I don't know if I liked the weather, I kind of did.
And now I'm appreciating Brisbane, and I kind of like both.
