So, just had my first day back at work today, and it was really, actually really nice.
It was really nice to see everybody again, and everybody was really lovely.
Jazz and Zabi, you talked quite a lot about how they missed me.
And, uh, oop, shit.
I didn't realise that ran out.
Um, talked about how much they missed me, and Zabi asked me to train Vanessa next month.
Um, and, um, she like, talked at, not length, but she was pretty, like, basically said I'm a really,
really good trainer, and she said I'm thorough, I'm patient, I'm, um, that's one or two other
words she used, descriptors she used, and she said I'm, uh, that Jazz is not a very good trainer.
She is not at all.
She's not very good at training.
Or at least training with that stuff.
Um, and I, yeah, I actually, I really enjoy it.
I really, it's, I really enjoy training.
I seem to be quite good at it.
Like, my day to day I was helping people, and helping people with stuff, and I,
it felt better than most of my days usually do.
I think, I think I would find, I find teaching, or like training, quite, quite meaningful.
Um, I get a lot more out of it than I do out of most of my jobs, most jobs I've done, like how I,
how I feel on days where I've done training.
I feel much, much, like much happier to be at work.
Um, so maybe that's what I need to do.
Maybe I need to, um, I, more and more is pointing me towards being a uni lecturer.
Like, and you know, even if I get a job where I don't do any research and I'm just teaching,
I actually think that might be okay.
I think I would probably quite enjoy that.
I want to teach something I care about.
You know, I don't want to teach English to adults or high school students or anything like that.
Um, I don't want to teach English, I don't want to be a, like a school teacher.
I want to be, I want to teach something that matters to me.
And I think that's, I'm going to pause for a second.
Yeah, I think that's, um, philosophy, cognitive science, that side of things.
Um, yeah, that's actually feels like a really, a really, not a, I mean, I've already been thinking
about it, but it feels like that's, and I haven't made the decision, but it just more and more seems
to be pushing me towards that.
And it really struck me today after it was really not, it was,
it was, it was really nice to hear that.
But like, you know, I've, I have a, I have a reference who could, you know, somebody I actually
trained, my boss, who I actually trained and who has, who has asked me to do training for other
people because I'm better at it than anybody else who was able to do it, who is, who is able to,
to teach that content.
I'm the, I'm the best person for the job and I taught her.
Um, so like, Zabi's actually a really good reference for me.
Um, oh, Jesus, is this person alright?
Yeah, I think that might be something to really start seriously considering.
It's probably if, I think I need to start looking at how difficult it is to get what's required
to get a teaching position and how, in the UK, a lecturing position and how difficult it is
and all that kind of stuff.
Um, you know, like I might potentially be able to do it with a masters if it's just a lecturing
position.
Fuck, went the wrong way.
God damn it.
Yeah, I might be able to do it with just a masters.
It might, it might actually really be worth doing this masters.
Um, yeah, could it even potentially be worth doing the masters going back to the, to the,
to career and getting a uni teaching position?
So I've got some teaching under my back, under my belt.
And then using that to get into like teaching, teaching, like lecturing.
Yeah.
That's really exciting that I actually might have a real reason to do this degree that I really,
this course that I really want to do.
Just fucking being able to afford it's a different question, but, uh, yeah.
Um.
Yeah.
And it was just, yeah, it was really nice.
Today was really nice.
Everybody was really lovely to me.
Um, everybody was like genuinely really missed me.
You know, Zabi was really lovely.
She was like, you know, this place was basically, you know, we, we needed you, we need you back.
We need you, uh, you know, to, for the, like the dynamic isn't the same without you.
We needed you, we need you here.
You know, they don't know what the fuck we're going to do when you go.
Like that's, that's really lovely.
No, thank you.
Um, I'm feeling really appreciated.
I haven't, I don't feel that very often.
It makes me feel like maybe I'm pretty good at what like maybe I'm pretty good at with people
and like making things comfortable for people.
I guess I'm, I'm succeeding in the thing that I care about.
Making things comfortable for others and a nice environment and,
and being patient and caring and kind and all those sorts of things.
The fact that John Viveki has been an associate professor or associate lecturer for like 15 years
and which means he wasn't, you know, he's been a part-time mostly teacher for 15 years.
Um, and you know, he's won awards for teaching.
You know, he's not actually like this major researcher.
Um, so yeah, like maybe
if my model, if my, if you know, the person I look up to can do the same thing, maybe I can.
And even if it isn't like this incredible, amazing life-changing job, like I think it's
probably a job that I would really get a lot out of.
Um, you know, it's one of the, it's a job I can really see myself doing.
I don't see myself being good at and feeling, feeling good doing.
But it doesn't have to be because I'm in, in a university, like if, because I'd be in a university,
I, you know, it would give me, even if I'm just teaching, it would give me access to,
you know, to be able to talk to other lecturers and stuff like that and other professors and all
that kind of thing. Um, and I could, you know, spend time outside of that doing the things I
really care about. Obviously I'd rather do that as my mate, as be paid to do that, but it's probably,
that's probably almost impossible. If I get to, if I could teach the things I care about
and, you know, do my own research on the side and writing on the side kind of thing,
like that might be a good way to do things.
