So I was just thinking about it. Yeah, so I was thinking about it and so the drive,
driving from London to Paris is about 456 kilometres, which is like just about half
of what this trip I'm doing today is, the trip from Sydney to Brisbane. And in between
Sydney and Brisbane, there's very little I care about. Like I'm not really interested
in, like I'm doing the drive today, most of the countryside looks the same, most of the,
there's like nothing, nowhere I really am interested, like I'm very happy to drive,
like I'm interested in the northern, I like the northern rivers. Other than that, there's
basically nothing between the two that I care about at all. Like, I mean, yeah, like now
that I've been to Armidale, yes, like I wanted to check out Armidale and stuff like that,
but like really I don't really care about, there's some like, maybe some nice walks.
Some nice walks in a couple of nice cool places like Bondi, not Bondi, but yeah, fucking the
other one, the famous one, where all the rich people are. Compare that to fucking, in half
the distance I could get from between London and Paris, you know, and that's going from,
and in between those two is a shitload of stuff I would be interested in seeing, like
all of fucking France, all like the Cliffs of Dover, all of the, all of fucking Britain
in between, like that's the thing. I don't care about most, like the vast, vast majority
of Australia and you have to go huge distances to get anywhere. Whereas I can go, I could
drive, what I've done in this trip, the distances I've done in this trip, where I basically,
basically didn't care about anything, really. Sydney was cool, that was about it, and there
was a few like, there was some sites between Toulouse Heads and Sydney that were pretty
cool and some sites between Melbourne and Toulouse Heads that were pretty cool, but
like that's about it. In that, the distance I will have done in this trip is like a decent
chunk of the way across Europe and there's so, so, so many things. I could spend a lifetime
in just those places. Like, that's, that's the difference, that's the big fucking difference
in how I feel.
