So I've just left Turoz Head on my journey back up from Melbourne.
First day yesterday, back up, the end of my time in Melbourne yesterday.
Yesterday was the first, left in Melbourne in the morning, the first day of the journey
back and drove from Melbourne to Turoz Head with Holly to where her parents live in Turoz
Head and stayed with them for the night.
And I've just left, now it's 11 o'clock.
Now on my way home, well I'm on the next stretch which is only about four hours but on the
way to Sydney.
And I'm going to stay in Sydney for the afternoon, just stay in Potts Point.
Going to get there too late to really go to any of the bookstores or anything because
I didn't leave Turoz Head until 11.
I just hung around with Holly and her parents down by the water having a coffee which was,
had breakfast with them and then hung around having a coffee which was actually really,
really nice.
Turoz Head's fucking lovely.
Holly's going to have a great time there I think.
But I just wanted to get down this, that it, I drove, kind of drove off having spent the
last two months in Melbourne pretty much with Holly, living in Holly's house and just drove,
sheepies, just drove from Melbourne to Turoz with Holly.
And now I'm not going to see her again for probably a couple of years, potentially ever
really, but every new time could be that.
So I'm, yeah, I'm going to open the windows.
Might be harder to hear, I'll just have to talk louder I guess.
And it feels, it feels like the closing of one, I've kind of said this a few times, but
it feels like the closing of one door and the opening of another.
It feels like the end of one thing and the start of a new future.
I feel light and free.
It's a gorgeous day.
I had a lovely morning, had a really nice, I was actually, I was getting sick of Holly
a bit during the trip in Melbourne and I was getting, really getting the shit with her
during the start of that, of yesterday's trip because she was just bitchy and annoying and
grumbly about everything and was judging me about everything and had a problem with everything
I did.
But eventually we kind of settled into a group that was really friendly and comfortable and
we just had a lot of fun and that was really nice.
That was a really nice way to kind of send off our time together.
And after that time in Melbourne, we're both now absolutely certain that neither of us
wants to be together.
And not even like, or maybe to like, that, we're done.
Like, we are comfortable and happy being friends.
Neither of us wants to be, gets back together and neither of us wants that to ever happen.
I don't ever want to be, like, that's, since coming down to Melbourne that's definitely
changed.
I don't ever want to be with her again.
That's our friendship going forward.
And that's like decided now, basically.
We've just had two months of living together.
We had sex a couple of times.
It wasn't good.
I don't, I'd like, don't, I didn't enjoy it.
It made me realise, living with her made me realise all of the, like, honestly I'm not
sure how the fuck I, how I, I kind of don't quite know how we were in a relationship to
be honest or how it lasted that long.
Because there's so many things she, like, so many ways that she is and some of the ways
things she does, fucking drive me nuts.
And just, like, some of her values I am so heavily against and that doesn't work for
a relationship.
I absolutely, 100% know I do not want to be in a relationship with her.
And that confirmed it.
And I don't want a sexual relationship with her.
I don't want a romantic relationship with her.
And she feels the same.
So it's like any, any uncertainty and hesitancy before I moved down, which was ebbing and
definitely fading, like on the way, well, a couple months before moving down it was like,
you know, we talked about dating when I moved down the last time, like when I came down
the last time I was down there, but that ebbed away and it's well and truly now like, nah.
And we can, and, you know, having lived with her, having lived together again for two months,
we can both definitely say, nah.
Not for us.
There's not a relationship that we want.
God, it's nice here.
And that's, you know, and now I'm on the other side of my Melbourne trip.
It's kind of, it's sad.
Like it's sad to leave Holly a bit.
It's sad to be leaving behind Melbourne, partly because I'm going back to Brisbane and I really
liked Melbourne.
And it's kind of like that, the possibilities there are now over and that part of my life
is now over.
But it's also, it's like, it's like a bit of sweetness, more the side of the sweet because
now the next thing is the UK.
And despite having been really like apathetic and depressed about everything this morning,
finally, it's starting to feel like actually that's a thing to look forward, that's a thing
that's going to happen and it's a thing to look forward to.
Because I was not doing well in that.
I loved it and I absolutely want, like I'm glad, I'm so glad I went.
I would not change it at all.
I would have been feeling worse in Brisbane, but I wasn't doing very well down there.
I'm still not doing very well.
I was very depressed.
I was quite depressed.
I was very apathetic.
I really struggled.
And I just, I felt it confirmed for me that I am 100% definitely over Australia and it's
time for me to go.
Like I loved it, but also at the same time it's like, I just don't really care about
any...
I don't really care about wandering on the streets and all that kind of stuff.
I love it, but I just don't care about anything in Australia.
It's time for me to leave.
So it just like, it confirmed things.
It confirmed things with Holly that I can set that aside and move on.
I can set Melbourne aside and move on.
You know, that's part of what it was, is like, do I actually want to maybe move to Melbourne?
I can set all of that aside and now I know the future.
What the future holds for me is the UK.
And that feels really freeing.
I'm now, right now, having talked about it, now feeling the sadness of leaving and kind
of like the ugh of going back to Brisbane.
Although I am really looking forward to seeing my friends.
And I'm actually kind of like really looking...
It's a lovely day today.
I'm dro...
Finally, finally fucking driving around with the windows down on the highway.
I'm on my way to Sydney.
It's lovely countryside as much as I don't really care about it that much, because it's
Australia.
It's just a bittersweet goodbye but moving like...
And a really sad, and kind of a sad like I'm probably...
A sad goodbye to Holly of like I'm probably not going to see you again for years.
Because she's certainly not coming up to Brisbane any time soon.
I won't be coming back down to Britain, Melbourne before I leave for the UK.
So I won't see it before I go to the UK.
And I probably won't be like...
I don't know how...
Like I'm aiming for a year.
Could be much longer than that.
So I don't know when I'm going to be back.
I don't know when I'm next going to be in Melbourne.
So I probably won't see it for quite a while.
Unless she comes and visits me in the UK.
But that also feels good.
She said it yesterday.
She was like that's also probably for the best because we probably need that distance.
I was like yep.
Yeah.
I don't know if I wear her at.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Sad.
Hopeful.
I actually feel hopeful.
I feel kind of excited for the future this morning.
I think it's just a combination of everything coming together.
The weather.
Leaving.
Having a lovely morning.
Seeing Vitoros was a really nice place to wake up and spend the morning.
All of that and knowing that I've now done all of those things.
I've done Melbourne.
I've done the checking stuff with the relationship.
That's all done.
I can set all of that aside and just move on.
And moving on means the UK.
I have to wait for six months.
But when I get back I can actually start, you know, I can start finally actually thinking
about the UK.
Now I've kind of like, I've been thinking about it but I've been putting it off because
it's like well I've got all this other stuff that's happening that I can't really think
about it yet and now it's the next thing.
It's the thing to start thinking about and planning for.
And as soon as I get home I can start selling things and packing and you know doing research
and all of that sort of stuff and that's what I have.
That's actually a really big thing.
That's like, you know, it's even bigger than, it's probably the biggest thing, one of the
biggest things I've done in my life.
Really.
I was going to say it's equivalent to Korea which was huge and was felt like an enormous
thing for me and a really big moment in my life but it's actually bigger than that.
I have wanted to live in the UK my entire, I've wanted to be in Europe my entire life
and that got even like more so after travelling there.
I've wanted to be and live in the UK for so fucking long and now finally I'm at the point,
I'm actually at the point where I can not only can I do that, it's going to happen.
Like think about that.
The UK is actually happening.
I have the money to buy a ticket right now.
I could leave tomorrow if I wanted to.
I shouldn't.
But I could.
I could leave tomorrow, not tomorrow but, so I would be in Brisbane but I could leave
next week if I wanted to.
So I have the means, I'm at a place in my life where there's literally nothing stopping
me from doing it.
I will have the money when I leave.
I've got the time.
I've got two years, two or three years of accounts payable experience that means I can
get a job over there.
This is really gorgeous.
I don't really know where this is.
Maruya.
Passing over the Maruya River.
Fucking lovely.
Yeah I have the space in my life.
Finally actually have the opportunity to do it.
There's almost always been something happening beforehand.
I didn't have enough money.
I was studying.
I was in a relationship.
None of those things are happening.
All the pieces are in place.
The time is right.
The time is right, I will have the money to get over there and support myself, even to
travel for a bit.
I could set aside all of these.
I still have this big aching hole of like fuck what do I do with myself and my future
and my career and all that moving forward.
And that's still like weighing me down a lot.
But I can set aside everything to do with Australia and my life here.
And not everything.
I still have a lot of my friends and my family and I still want to be in contact with everything.
But I don't have those lingering like do I actually want to be here?
Do I want to move to Melbourne and be with Holly?
All of that is done.
Finally two years later, almost two years after we broke up, all of that is done.
That's why it feels so amazing.
I'm heading back to Brisbane and all of that is done and I know I can move finally.
All those ties are cut and I'm not cut but all of that last bit of stuff is wrapped up
and I can move forward knowing what I want to do next.
If I could work out what the fuck I want to do with my life overall other than be in the
UK and work with my career at the same time, that would be amazing but that's probably
not going to happen.
That's going to continue to be a problem and I'm going to be quite depressed about it etc.
It's going to bring me down and bring down my mood and it's going to be something I'm
struggling with for a while but for right now I'm going to the fucking UK baby.
That's next.
And I have a good, I'm going with a good friend.
I will have a good friend over there with me.
Like one of my best friends who is from there and can show me around and I like fuck.
I'm genuinely for the first time actually starting to get excited and hopeful about it and it
feels amazing.
And I kind of want to just like get home and immediately, oh wombats.
I just kind of, I kind of want to just get home and immediately start fucking packing
and planning.
And it's almost like with that done I can almost, I'm almost like, I think it's partly
the day and like my mood but I'm enjoying Australia more.
Like it's right now, today it's lovely.
Sun shining on the water and not right now where I am but today so far it's been gorgeous.
But at the same time I also don't have to be like but also do I want to be here?
I know I don't.
I know I don't want to be here but I can also enjoy it while I'm here kind of thing.
I'm so happy.
And now to go home.
So now I'm going to go home, spend time with my friends, really like kind of finish off
the health things that I had to, that I did this year which is basically start to get
the, do another sleep, follow up sleep study with the mouthguard in and then do any follow
up steps from there.
Get the exercise routine with the back, the back exercise routine to stick.
And wearing the thing, follow up appointments with the scoli care, that stuff.
Maybe something to do with my Peyronies, probably not to be honest.
I kind of had enough of doing health stuff and start coming off of this medication with
Hayley's help, with my therapist's help start coming off this medication.
It's been a year and a half, it's been about two years since things were real, since I
started them.
About two years since things were really rough.
It's been about a year and a half since I broke up with Holly which is about half the
lifespan, about half the time that we were together which is what they say.
So it really feels like this coming, this trip, this drive back up feels like a transition
point.
It feels like I'm driving up to a different future or driving up to the future I guess,
driving up to a slightly different life, a little bit of a different life.
Transitioning from an older way of how things were before to how things are now I guess
or going forward.
So yeah, finish off the health things, keep working on my mental health stuff and uncovering
some of my underlying patterns and working on them.
Save some money, spend time with friends, actually print an epic army and start playing
a bit. Get off of these medications and start getting ready to go to the UK.
Saving, selling, packing, getting rid of things, buying things I might need.
I think actually coming off this medication is actually quite a big part of all of that.
It's another big part of this next step forward is basically coming off those meds and then
going to the UK.
Because coming off the meds is probably going to be a little bit of a lengthy process, it's
probably going to be a bit unpleasant and I want to get it done before I go to the UK.
Depending on what Jono says about how hard it is to get prescribed things in the UK.
So that's me going forward and hopefully coming off those meds will make a fairly big difference.
I'm still going to be depressed but I'll have something to look forward to at least.
It's probably going to suck a little bit being back in Brisbane.
I wasn't really away for long enough to really miss it and really think you want to go back.
I was basically just going long enough to just start getting a taste for what life outside
of Brisbane would be like and now I'm already gone back.
So that's going to suck.
But I've got something to look forward to to get me through it.
Especially if I can convince Jaz and Zabi to let me go back down to three days a week.
Assuming after I look at whether I can afford to do that.
I think I'll actually probably have a pretty decent time with my mates and having enough
time to do 3D printing stuff and get back into some of the...
And it's like it'll actually be kind of easier to do the philosophy stuff in Brisbane despite
the fact that there's nowhere else.
I mean there is.
There's a really comfortable library I like going to.
I don't get that...
I don't get that experience...
Ugh, Jesus.
A bit fast.
I don't get that experience...
Right, now I'm going to fucking sped up a bit there.
I don't get that experience of getting to go out and sit at awesome wine bars and whiskey
bars like Buck Mulligan's.
I have not been able to find anything like that in Brisbane.
Anything even close.
But there is a really lovely library down the road from me that I can go to.
I have to do it during the day which is kind of the bad part.
But yeah, it's actually kind of easier to do the philosophy stuff and the writing in
Brisbane than it is in Melbourne.
I think I got way more done in Brisbane than I did in Melbourne because I don't really
care about going out all the time.
Every weekend I wanted to go out and do stuff in Melbourne whereas I don't really care about
doing that.
I want to see my friends and that's kind of it.
Like Saturday I'll probably make a day for doing...
I'll make a weekly or fortnightly hanging out with my mates and playing Warhammer Day,
Epic, 40k, etc etc a day.
But yeah.
I'm still going to have problems balancing my love of tabletop gaming and doing the
philosophy stuff.
And the 3D printing and reading about different tabletop games and doing my philosophy and
reading that.
But maybe if I can get something going with Ryan that'll...
I think the thing with Jeremy will probably help with that.
If I can keep that going.
I'll have Saturdays for...
Fridays for like kind of doing tasks and errands and stuff.
Saturdays for hanging out with the boys and playing games and like tabletop games just
like every fortnight.
Go to Irresistible Force and play stuff with Dave if nothing else.
And then Sundays for kind of chilling out.
If I can get another day off then I'll have a day for like...
A day I can maybe devote to doing philosophy or something.
One day a week where I just go to the library and do philosophy all day.
That would be cool.
But I think if I can get that day off I think I would actually probably quite enjoy my time
before the UK.
But I may not be able to afford to.
I have to look into that first.
And I honestly think it's pretty unlikely.
Another thing that with this next phase I guess or like how this trip is a transition
from the previous period to a new one.
The previous period and being able to leave things behind it's like I've got a chance
to see a fair amount of Australia on this trip.
I got a chance to do the road trip down the coast that I wanted to do with Holly in some
ways.
Like I got to do the trip down the coast and I got to do a little bit of a road trip with
Holly.
You know I got to see Canberra again.
I'll get to see Sydney very briefly again.
I spent time in Melbourne.
I got to see actually a decent amount of the East Coast.
I didn't really stop many places very much but I didn't really care about that.
I just got to do the drive and see it.
And now I can be like well I did it so meh.
Like whatevs.
Didn't really do it for me.
The whole way down I was just like yeah I don't want to leave Australia.
I don't want to be gone.
And I can say that.
I've lived in Melbourne for two months now.
I've seen a decent chunk of the East Coast etc etc.
And the whole time I just wanted to leave.
I loved, I really loved Melbourne and I would absolutely live there at some point.
The whole time on the trip I've just been like ah yep I'm done with Australia for now
I want to leave.
You know even in Melbourne where I was seeing the gorgeous European trees I was like I would
rather see those trees in Europe.
It's actually annoying me that these trees are here in Melbourne because it's like Melbourne's
trying to be a shitty Europe.
I'd rather just fucking go to Europe than see these trees in Melbourne.
I'd rather just go elsewhere.
I'd rather just go where they're actually from.
Kind of thing.
Every town I stopped at I was like yeah it's nice but I don't really care.
And I felt that like that about pretty much everywhere I went on that trip, on this trip.
So it is time.
It is well and truly time.
Everything's lined up.
Everything is pointing at it.
It's possible, it's doable etc etc.
It's happening.
But I've done all the alternatives.
The UK is now a foregone conclusion.
And it may be where I, it may be where I move there and fucking love it and never want to
leave.
There's so many things I want to see there.
There's so much stuff I want to do.
I feel so much more connected to it.
You know I'm listening to this audio book about fucking Kurt Gödel talking about, and
it talks about Vienna and stuff.
You know like I desperately want to go there.
I feel connected to there.
I feel, I feel, you know I've never, you don't hear stories about some great philosopher
coming from Australia.
All the things I'm interested in and all the things I care about are happening elsewhere
and you know the history of them is elsewhere.
And you know I thought, I was thinking to myself it's also, it's really, it's kind of illuminating
in that you know I don't, I don't feel a desperate need to go to the, like I would go to America
and check it out and the same with Canada but I don't feel a desperate need to go there
like I do with Europe.
It's Europe particularly.
It's not just not Australia.
It is Europe particularly.
It's not that I'm, I'm partly going to leave, to leave Australia but it's not that I'm going,
I'm leaving Australia.
It's that I'm going to the UK.
Because if I wanted to leave Australia I could, I would be, you know I'd be just as happy
to go anywhere else.
I'm not.
I desperately want to go to the UK.
I want, I want, I need to be in Europe.
I can't explain all the ways why that's the case.
I feel so, I just feel so much more connected to it and interested in it and yeah.
Buy myself a nice Scottish lass and settle down there.
Well to be honest I think part of me thinks I might prefer to live in England.
Nice British lass and settle down there.
Makes me really happy to wake up every morning and hear a British accent.
Last thing, I think another thing, one last thing I'd, one thing I'd like to do before
I go to the UK is to look into my ancestry.
I think I want to, I want to see what ancestry I have in the UK and when I'm over there,
I go, I guess go connect with it.
Go, go, go to the places my family is from etc etc.
