What's it called?
That incompleteness book.
Again.
Like two months later.
And...
Ooh.
Incompleteness.
Something, something, something.
And it's talking about how...
Kind of talking a little bit about the mystical side of things in...
In...
Fucking...
What's his name?
Fuck.
What is his name?
Einstein's work.
And that how Wittgenstein thought the most important part of his work was what he hadn't
said because he's basically, you know, he's basically saying there is a whole bunch of
stuff that we can't talk about and actually that's all the most important stuff.
And the positivists basically took him to be saying, you know, outside of what can be
sayable is nothing, whereas to him it's outside of what can be sayable is all the most important
things.
So a fairly mystical kind of way of seeing things.
It's interesting that as she's saying that the Vienna Circle who were united in being
completely dismissive of mystery were like basically...
What's the word?
They were basically disciples of a thinker who was...
Thought that mystery was vital basically.
Which I think is kind of like an indicator of...
Ooh, two commas on the left.
That's where I'm going to go.
Wait, was that it there?
No.
That's...I think that's a bit indicative of what David Chapman said about how most of
20th...like the second half of analytical philosophy in the 20th century, second half of the 20th
century of philosophy basically consisted of a whole bunch of people being obsessed
with Wittgenstein and completely misunderstanding him and basically taking the opposite viewpoint
to what he actually took.
I think that might be part of it there, that he actually thought that mystery and paradox
and ambiguity were incredibly important and they were...a lot of these people were like
completely antithetical to that.
This is interesting.
She says that Wittgenstein's acolytes basically, they may have disagreed on the interpretation
of his work.
They basically all agreed that if the correct interpretation could be found, if a corrective
interpretation could be found, or the right interpretation, sorry, if the right interpretation
could be found, it would by necessity be correct.
As in like it would be true.
And the important, the interesting thing is she says that that tendency still exists in
Anglo...the Anglosphere philosophy.
So basically Wittgenstein's still having a massive effect on Anglosphere philosophy and
potentially those misunderstandings of him.
So she's talking about how...she's talking about the nature of mathematical knowledge
and its certainty and she's exploring where does that certainty come from basically.
This is as part of a section talking about David Hilbert and the intuitionists and how
I think she's going to lead into how Gödel's work basically completely obliterated his
program.
But at the moment she's talking about...she's talking about where the certainty in mathematical
knowledge comes from and she's talking about how it usually, it basically works from some
proof and goes from a proof to, you know, based on this proof being true, this other
thing must be true.
But she's saying, you know, but not everything can be proven, otherwise you'd never be able
to get off the ground.
And she says, so there must be something in mathematics that is a given, which is basically
the axioms I guess.
And then she leads into talking about intuitions, mathematical intuitions.
She says, you know, mathematical knowledge has to start from somewhere, you know, it
starts from the given.
But she's like, well, given to us from where?
And that's where she leads into intuitions.
She says intuitions are tricky because they are supposed to be something that we just
know, not on the basis of anything else.
But that intuitions, mathematical intuitions are kind of seen as the a priori analogue
of sense perceptions, or something like that.
She goes on and talks about how intuitions are problematic because, you know, she talks
about there's a weaker way of talking about intuitions which are like, just like kind
of a vague idea we have without any real evidence.
But she talks about how intuitions are kind of often, they're basically often presuppositions,
they're often underlying things, and that you would think that they don't really make
appearances in maths because of its certainty and all that, but they actually do.
And that can be problematic.
Some other stuff.
She talks about how things that are accidental or like not necessarily true can be kind
of included in those intuitions.
She talks about how almost all mathematicians use graphs and sketches and images and how
the accidental features of those can be included into our intuitions, despite not necessarily
being true.
Because there are eight to pure reason, quote unquote pure reason.
Which I think is an interesting kind of point to what David Chapman talks about how, you
know, there is basically no pure, there almost is no pure reason.
The human mind is incapable of it.
We are always using things like, you know, sketches and symbols on a page and notepads
and stuff like that to aid us in doing, that's part of doing reason and rationality.
Talks about how, so basically she's talking about how, you know, say for example if you
wanted to, you know, prove that all of the angles of a particular triangle are acute,
which is less than 90 degrees, you draw a draw a triangle without necessarily being
like well this is obvious, we don't need a proof for this.
And she's like but you're only drawing triangles, because of that's the truth you have in mind,
you're only drawing triangles that look like that.
Which is basically means, is like about, it's about relevance realisation.
So relevance realisation comes into, you are only drawing, you are only consciously drawing
on examples that are relevant to you.
Which isn't necessarily all of them that exist.
How intuitions can often be, I can't remember the exact word she uses but she basically
draws a link between like the exact reason that Gödel and Einstein were in Princeton,
at Princeton University was because it, exactly because the intuitive, what seemed like just
the intuitive thing to do for people in Germany was to purge the Jews.
Basically the summation is even in mathematics, there's many areas which, almost everywhere
it happens, but it happens even in mathematics that intuitions that seem obvious are actually
very false.
But she's saying that yeah even though that maths is not the only thing where this is
the case, it seems different to everything else because it's the only thing that seems
to have a system for what she calls truth purification, which is the axiomatic system.
So basically axioms are essentially the intuitions of, well I'm guessing what she's going to
lead towards is that axioms are the intuitions, axioms are based on intuitions.
And she says the desire to universalise the truth purifying nature of, with the axiomatic
system of maths is exactly what the rationalist movement in philosophy was about.
Basically she talks about how, she mentions that's why one of the leading rationalists,
Spinoza, wanted to take, basically took the axiomatic system and applied it to, applied
it to ethics.
So she says, so she goes on to explain what the axiomatic system is and she says in any
mathematical field there are, we have axioms, rules of inference and theorems.
Which is basically we start with axioms which we use rules of inference and we get theorems.
And the axioms are the self-evident, what sort of she uses a good term, the axioms are the
basic truths of the system which are intuitively obvious.
We understand what they mean and they don't require any explanation beyond that, that
we understand what they mean.
They don't require a proof.
So they're the start, axioms are the starting point, they're the thing that we don't need
to prove because they appear to be self-evident basically, like 1+1=2.
We use the truth preserving rules of inference to work from the axioms to the non-obvious
theorems.
So basically we go, we have these self-evident axioms, we assume these to be true, like they
appear to just be true, they're self-evident.
And we use these rules of inference that ensure, that work out from the axioms and ensure that
as long as the axioms are true, anything, any theorem that's proved through using those
rules of inference is also true.
Has to be true.
He goes on to talk about Piano's arithmetic, which is where he reduced all of arithmetic
to five axioms.
She talks about the first three of them.
And she says, she uses arithmetic as an example because it's the most basic of all of the
system, all of the mathematical systems or areas.
So Piano arithmetic is a very good example of axiomatisation.
So all axioms should appear, should be trivial.
It's precisely because of their triviality that we can just, basically that we assume
their truth.
Like, well of course they're fucking true.
Kind of thing.
And she says, if we want this whole, the whole system of arithmetic or whatever to stand,
we want the seed, the basic, the basis, the axioms to be unquestionable basically, which
is what we mean by intuitively obvious.
However, the theorems are only accepted as true once they have been proved.
Well yeah, so then she says, this axiomat, this system of axiomatic, this axiomatic system,
this system of axioms was first devised by the ancient Greeks, in particular by Euclid,
which is exactly what David Chapman said.
That Euclid's geometry was like the end, its axioms was the basis of the certainty of knowledge
for fucking ever, which is why non-Euclidean geometry was like the beginning of the end
for certainty basically.
She says in an axiomatic system, the fewer axioms we have, the better.
We should basically try to reduce any axioms to other axioms, any other axioms basically,
which things should be reduced.
We should have like the minimum amount so they can be like the ones that everything
else is drawn from.
And she says the rules of axiomatic systems basically require that there is
consensus on those axioms.
They need to be like, the bedrock needs, there needs to be consensus on the bedrock, essentially.
And she says the reason the axioms need to be kept to as few as possible is because we
need to appeal to intuition as little as possible in order to maximise certainty.
But it's unavoidable that we do appeal to some because we need to start from somewhere,
otherwise we would have just been infinite regressive proofs.
And she said since basically from the ancient Greeks or from the ancient Greeks, the system
of axiomatisation was basically thought to pretty much represent maths and what it was
and therefore knowledge in its highest ideal.
So the axiomatic system was for most of history, a large portion of history basically perfect
knowledge, what we aspired to.
And the, I can't fucking remember, I think she's going on to say that the, yeah, it's
that system building that is what leads to, the axiomatic system building is what leads
to certainty of mathematics.
And she says, but people wanted to take it, I think she's going to lead on to saying that
people wanted to take it even further, that certainty even further and get rid of, and
basically get rid of the, and move beyond the, actually I don't know, I need to listen.
And she says, yeah, so she says, and that desire for certainty went even further to
basically where the desire was to eliminate intuitions entirely, which is, then she gets
onto, and that's where we get onto formal systems.
She says a formal system is an axiomatic system divested of all appeals to intuition.
So I don't really know how it can be that and also be an axiomatic system.
And then she goes on to talk about why this kind of drives for formal systems where, you
know, completely getting rid of any intuitions happened.
It was because the 19th century led to, in the 19th century a bunch of mathematical developments
happened that essentially like got rid of our confidence, destroyed our confidence in
those appeals to intuition in axiomatic systems.
Cool, yeah.
So then she says, and the most dramatic of these undermining, undermining of confidence
was the discovery of non-Euclidean geometry, which is exactly, so David Chapman was right.
I mean, assuming this lady's right.
Further evidence for David Chapman, this whole like collapse of rational certainty article.
Cool, cool, awesome.
And she, so basically, you know what happened.
You don't need to fucking think it.
They discovered non-Euclidean geometry, which showed that some of Euclid's axioms were not
true and they had been the basis of fucking certain knowledge for like 2000 years.
So the, it was the fifth axiom, the parallel, the axiom of parallelity or parallelization,
I don't know, parallel axiom, I can't remember.
That was the one that was a problem and it was a problem because it invoked infinity
because it's something like a parallel lines something.
Yeah, I don't really understand it enough, but basically it's because it's basically
because it's, I think because it's parallel lines, which will never touch into infinity,
I think.
That's what parallel lines are, like parallel lines will never ever touch.
They're parallel precisely because extended out to infinity even, they will still never
touch.
I think that's what parallel is.
I think that's where the infinity part of the parallels postulate comes from, which
is the fifth axiom of Euclid's geometry.
It's a problem because we should always be skeptical of our intuitions about infinity.
It's not Euclid's geometry, it's Euclid's elements.
Basically a bunch of people, so Euclid wasn't skeptical of that last, of the parallels postulate
and other people basically tried to deal with it over the centuries.
In the 19th century, a bunch of people tried a different tack of basically seeing if they
could derive a contradiction by keeping the first four axioms and having the fifth axiom
be essentially false, I think is what it was.
That should derive a contradiction, but instead of deriving a contradiction, it actually derived
a completely self-contained geometry, which is non-Euclidean geometry.
Set theory was one of the other developments, or particularly the discovery of Russell's
paradox, the set of all sets that don't contain themselves, was the other thing that destroyed
our confidence in intuitively obvious things in axiomatic systems.
Because of this, the mathematicians of the 19th and 20th century realised that it was
thought that, or basically came to the conclusion that based on those things, if they could
purge the axiomatic systems of appeals to intuition, that would be the way forward.
Because they'd lost confidence in their axiomatic systems basically because of those things.
They said the elimination of intuitions is done by draining the system of all meanings,
that's a really important point, draining the system of all meanings except those that can
be defined in the stipulated rules of the system.
These rules make no claims to be connected to reality.
They make no claim to be descriptive of mathematical reality, of reality, of mathematical objects,
etc etc.
They make no claim to be descriptive of an objective reality.
This is interesting, a formal system is what you're left with after this, and this is the
word she uses, meaning drainage.
Formal systems are inherently not descriptive of reality, they don't claim to be descriptive
of reality.
And she says these were the most stringent things that the mathematicians at the time
could come up with in order to abolish intuitions.
She says a formal system is an axiomatic system except that instead of being constructed of
meaningful symbols like zero or the successor function which is n+1.
I play what she says here because it's very specific and it's very important I think to
get the specific.
It is constructed entirely of meaningless signs, marks on paper whose only significance
is defined in terms of the relations of each to one another as set forth by the rules.
So formal systems are axiomatic systems where all meaning is stripped out and everything
it's constructed of is things that we have, rules that we have created.
There's no reference to reality, everything is something we have created I think.
Which sounds very kind of simulacra and simulationy and representational and all that kind of stuff
although representation is still like reference to reality.
So she says whereas axiomatic systems were thought to be about something like they're
about numbers, real natural numbers which is arithmetic or space which is geometry,
formal systems aren't about anything.
So in formal systems we don't have to appeal to our intuitions about numbers or sets or
space at all.
That's how it's getting rid of intuitions, stripping out its relationship to reality
by stripping out its meaning which is a sign for what meaning is relationship to reality.
So essentially we are creating, in formal systems we are creating our own language and
we're creating the alphabet of the formal system, the rules and basically which then
can constrain what we can say.
It's essentially like a small world, a formal system is essentially like a small world,
it's not connected to reality, we're creating our own little micro world that is entirely
self consistent and self contained because we say we are setting out what is allowed
into it which means we're excluding other things that might be in reality.
In fact this is amazing, this is like really important.
So that's a signal of what meaning is, fundamentally meaning is about being connected to reality
and why formal systems are meaningless because they're not at all connected to reality, they
are entirely micro worlds, entirely syntactical, entirely grammatical, there is no semantics,
there's no meaning, it's all variables basically, variables and rules of combining variables
and drawing information from one variable to the next.
Still doesn't explain where the actual axioms come from.
Also this is finally an actual explanation of what a formal system is, I've never actually
had a proper explanation of it, it's always kind of this half arsed, kind of wishy washy
hand wavy thing, this is like actually going through and explaining this is what a formal
system is by first explaining what an axiom is, what an axiomatic system is and the development
of where a formal system came from out of axiomatic systems etc etc.
Fuck, that's amazing.
This is a really good reference piece for what work I want to do.
Ok, right, so formal systems, I'm just going to fucking do what she says.
"Mathematical activity in two processes so completely determined by clearly specified
rules as to be purely mechanical, requiring no imagination or ingenuity, not even a grasp
as to what the symbols mean."
There you go, formal systems are about completely mechanising something.
They are about basically it should be able to be followed automatically.
These rules are set out, you need no understanding of the meaning of any of the signs or symbols,
the rules are so clear that you can, it can be automated essentially, it can be mechanical,
it doesn't require any decision making, it doesn't require any intuition, it doesn't
require any imagination, it just requires you to follow the rules.
Which is like the fucking, the apotheosis of the entire fucking project of modernism,
of the modern age basically.
And the computer is basically the physical instantiation of exactly that.
Right, rule following with no understanding, no meaning involved.
And yet it produces meaning, or it produces something that we are able to interpret as
meaning.
Oh, this is so fucking good.
So there's a big link here as well between this and Cargocult Science, which is basically
like trying to use the p-value as a mechanical procedure, where you don't make any, there's
no decision making required, you just, if you meet this rule, then you get the thing.
So I think it's an interesting connection to AI and algorithms and computation, and
you know, the computerisation of things in that they're disconnected from reality, they're
about following rules.
And the increase of that in our society means our society is going to be increasingly disconnected
from reality.
Which then connects to that book about, the book I got from, the book I got from, What's
His Face, about What's His Face.
The book I got from, Eviden, about how we need to be basically connected to reality
still, and how a lot of modern companies are getting disconnected from reality.
So, I'm just going to, and, and, regress, regressive, no, re, What's His Face function, so I'm going
to just play what she says.
Formal system, and a formal system, consists of nothing but rules, is to engage in a combinatorial
activity that, consisting purely of recursive functions, roughly speaking, functions that
tell you how to arrive at a result by taking the result of another recursive function,
or of a really simple, basic function, could be programmed into a computer that is, that
is, computable.
This activity amounts to figuring things out by using an algorithm, a sequence of operations
that tells you what to do at each step, depending on what the outcome of the previous step was.
It's a very, there you go.
So there's an intimate, there's like an exact, exact connection between, like, almost 100%
connection between formal systems and computability.
Formal systems and algorithms and computability.
A formal system is essentially computable through algorithms, through a step-by-step
rule-following process.
It tells you exactly what to do at each stage.
But those are rules that we are setting.
That's the important part.
It's not rules that arise from reality, it's rules that we are setting.
It's a constructed system.
Lee Gödel is the one who defined the concept of a recursive function in his first incompleteness
theorem.
And then she gives the history of the word algorithm, which I will record in a moment.
Just recall what she says.
"The third algorithm comes from the name of the 9th century Persian mathematician Abu
Jafar Muhammad Ibn Musa al-Qalasiz, who wrote an important mathematical book in about AD
825 that was called 'Hitab al-Jabr wal Mukhabala.'
We also derive our word algebra from the title of his book."
So this is really, really interesting.
She talks about how, oh, this whole fucking chapter is like a fucking goldmine for my area
of interests.
But she's talking about how, I like the relationship, you know, my areas of interest being like
the relationship between rationality and formal systems and meaning and meaninglessness.
It's through that, the kind of, the propositional tyranny and all that sort of stuff.
But she's now talking about how the move to formal systems saw the appearance of a whole
bunch of interrelated concepts like effective operations, algorithms, computability, formal
systems, etc., etc.
Says this whole family of things like computability, recursive functions, effective procedures,
computability, etc., etc.
All mean basically the same thing, which are basically like a system of rules that have
no references to meaning outside of the meanings that can be derived from the rules themselves.
Or something to that effect.
It says, she says this relationship between formal systems and rules, she says this relationship
between formal systems and rules is why computers are so closely related to formal systems.
Which is basically her saying what I said, which is her basically her supporting what
I said, which is that computers are like a physical instantiation of formal systems.
This is interesting, which is like kind of connected to John Vavahy.
She said, I'm just going to read it.
I'm just going to record what she says exactly.
Hold up.
Intuition is reputedly a way of trying to circumnavigate the essential opacity of actual
things.
A way of making contact with them.
And it's a way that had proved itself to be eminently unreliable in mathematics just as
elsewhere.
So intuitions are basically a way of, from what I understand what she's saying, they're
intuitions are a way of trying to basically make contact with the world.
The opacity of the world.
Of reality.
Which kind of accords with what John Vavahy is saying about intuitions.
And his whole thing about training intuitions and how intuitions are basically like picking
up patterns in the world, unconsciously picking up patterns in the world.
You know, what he talks about, how that's connected to, and you know, that we want to
train our intuition on causal patterns, not correlational ones, etc. etc.
And formal systems are transparent.
Even the very complicated ones are transparent in that whole point.
So she says, if it could be possible that logically consistent formal systems are...
Ah fuck it, I'm just going to play what she said.
...be shown that logically consistent formal systems are adequate for proving all the truths
of mathematics, then we would have successfully banished intuitions from mathematics.
The proviso of...
And that, I'm guessing, is exactly what Goethe's incompleteness theorems did.
They showed that it's impossible to completely banish intuitions from... thing.
I'm guessing.
I'm guessing.
That's what that means.
Interesting, okay, I'm just going to have to play some more here because it's got some
important definition and it's got some important implications.
We would have shown too that mathematics should not be considered as inherently about anything.
What he's talking about here is if we are able to prove that logically consistent formal
systems are good enough for proving all of mathematics, what she said before.
Be dissolving away the putative objects of mathematical descriptions.
We would be showing mathematics not to be descriptive at all.
The assertion of the possibility and desirability of banishing intuitions by showing formal
systems to be entirely adequate to the business of mathematics is the metamathematical view
known as formalism.
So that's what formalism is.
Formalism is the idea that we can basically get rid of essentially all, I guess, a way
of phrasing is all reference to the outside world and basically so that maths is not about
anything.
It's purely syntactic.
And it's, that's formalism, but the important part there is that if that is able to happen,
that would mean that it would show that math is not about anything.
And I'm pretty sure the fact that, I'm pretty sure the incompleteness proofs prove that
math is about something.
So it kind of like incompleteness proofs almost destroy the underlying kind of, it's not necessarily
opposition but like the underlying ideological trend of the modern world, of I don't know
how to put it, like of technocracy, of the underlying trends, ideological and intellectual
trends that have led to propositional tyranny and all other things, and you know hyper rationalism
and all the things I talk about with it.
I'm interested in around that cluster of things.
It seems like if this is the case, Gödel's incompleteness theorems are kind of like strong
evidence against that.
Really good explanation of formalism.
So she's basically saying under formalism mathematics basically becomes chess raised
to a much higher level of intricacy because we can all agree that there is no underlying
objective reality of chess.
We are, it's an entirely created system of rules.
It's a system of rules that we've created.
It's entirely human made.
And that's what formalism is aiming to do with mathematics.
So basically to achieve certainty by utterly stripping it of relevance to, well not relevance,
of connection to reality.
Which therefore means being connected to reality must come with uncertainty.
So there is no external, what is this what she says, there is no external truth to which
math has to measure itself.
So it's utterly disconnected from reality.
She just confirmed it.
So Gödel's incompleteness theorems have, the way she says it is, Gödel's incompleteness
theorems have something to say about the feasibility or lack of feasibility, or actually lack of
feasibility of completely removing intuitions from mathematics.
So basically his incompleteness theorems get like disproved formalism essentially.
So it disproves that maths is utterly disconnected from reality.
Interesting, so I mean this is something she already kind of said earlier but basically
she talked about how Gödel was trying to, he had a lot of strong, he had very strong
convictions about the nature of maths and had a lot to say about it but didn't want
to say it in the normal ways so he said it with the maths, with mathematical proofs.
However, everybody misunderstood him and like nobody really understood what he was actually
trying to say with them basically and they've been used to support all sorts of different
positions.
As I thought the leading advocate of formalism, which is that whole system that we were just
talking about, was David Hilbert.
David Hilbert was a formalist and I'm guessing his brahowa, his arch nemesis, was an intuitionist.
And basically the Hilbert program was the project to formalise all of mathematics one
branch at a time starting with the most simple, arithmetic.
What offers significant vindication of formalism, explaining the sui generis a priorisity of
mathematics as derivative from the stipulation of rules.
Mathematicians, according to formalism, are not in the business of discovering descriptive
truths, whether of the real world of things in physical space or the trans-empirical world
of numbers and sets.
We're never really meant to discover, for example, how many lines parallel to a given
line can run through a given point in space that isn't on that line.
They are simply in the business of manipulating the mechanical rules of self-enclosed formal
systems that are complex enough to test the deductive skills of mathematicians.
In spirit, Hilbert's formalism was close to the anti-mystery attitudes of the Vienna Circle
and so the logical positivists very naturally embraced it, as Feigl tells us.
For instance, Hilbert, we would consider mathematical proofs as procedures that start with a given
set of sign combinations, emesis, postulates, and according to rules of inference, transformation
rules, lead to the derivation of a conclusion.
Formalism confirms, at least in the sphere of mathematics, what the positivists had declared
in their manifesto, namely that man is the measure of all things, who create how a formal
system's end-all of mathematics follows.
For centuries, utopian epistemologists like Descartes and Leibniz had been inspired by
the unique certainty and a prioricity of mathematics and had harbored dreams of extending those
very features throughout the cognitive realm, propagating recourse to empirical evidence,
which can give one at best mere probability.
The special features of mathematical truth had led otherwise sober men going back all
the way to Plato to mere mystical celebrations of its otherworldly reach.
But now, with formalism, the nature of maths a priori has been changed.
With the success of Hilbert's program, the foundations of mathematics would at last be
laid clear.
The murkiness that had encouraged rationalist giddiness dispelled.
In 1899, David Hilbert published Grundlagen der Geometrie, or Foundations of Geometry,
the most influential work in geometry since Euclid's.
Its importance reached far beyond geometry.
He had shown that geometry could be captured in a formal system, conditional that is upon
the basis of all mathematical systems.
In the talk, called Mathematical Problems, Hilbert delegated himself the task of determining
the
solution of the problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
The problem was that the problem was not a mathematical problem.
Oh my gosh, such a long trip.
Oh my gosh, such a long trip.
Oh my gosh, such a long trip.
Oh my gosh, such a long trip.
Oh my gosh, such a long trip.
Oh my gosh, such a long trip.
Oh my gosh, such a long trip.
Oh my gosh, such a long trip.
Oh my gosh, such a long trip.
Oh my gosh, such a long trip.
Oh my gosh, such a long trip.
Oh my gosh, such a long trip.
Oh my gosh, such a long trip.
Oh my gosh, such a long trip.
Three, the proof of incompleteness.
Oh my gosh, such a long trip.
