I've been really, really impressed with the drive from... what the fuck is that? Is that
a deer? Just on the side of the highway? Yep, two deer just sitting on the side of the highway.
I have been really, really impressed with the drive from Turoos Head to Sydney. I've
just passed Wollongong and I'm in the section of the Princess Motorway between Wollongong
and Sydney. I just went up over Mount Pleasant which looks... which is like the highway goes
over and looks out down over Wollongong. Fuck, it's gorgeous. That section is gorgeous. The
section on the... I think it's called the Southern New South Wales coast, I think, is
fucking stunning. It's just all of these massive hilltops look at... that look out over... hilltops
that look out over like the ocean and just all these bluffs and... it's fucking gorgeous.
And this is just outside... I'm an hour and 17 minutes out of Potts Point and it's fucking...
I mean it's a bit kind of just regular bush around here but around Mount Pleasant and
coming down out of there it was quite rain foresty. I quite like the area around Sydney.
I'll have to come back and check it out. After the UK at some point, maybe try living in
Sydney for a little bit. And there is so much fucking... miles and miles and miles of fucking
bushland and rain forest and nature around Sydney. It's nuts. So much fucking nature
around here. Also, Jesus, it's so much warmer here than it is in fucking Melbourne. It's
like fucking gorgeous. It's 25 degrees, sunny, like a little bit windy but not too much compared
to fucking Melbourne which was overcast as fuck, windy as fuck, usually drizzling. Yeah,
the weather here is fucking nice. I've just driven through Engadene which is the first...
the Sydney city borders start much earlier but it's the first... basically the first
real suburb of Sydney and the view from up on top of the hill near there down towards
Sydney is fucking awesome.
So I want to do the Grand Pacific Drive. It goes from the bottom of Sydney, it goes through...
I've just passed the Sydney entrance of it. It goes through the Royal National Park which
is like... takes up a decent chunk of the south of Sydney, southern section of Sydney.
It goes from there to where I was earlier today. I can't quite remember where it was but it's
a fucking long way and it all goes along the coast.
