So, I'm thinking about all the things that I want to get done before I leave for the
UK. I want to print 3D print a whole bunch of stuff. I want to ... I want to ... I like
all the preparations for moving to the UK that I need to do. And I also want to ... like
really get some of this stuff with the thing. Some of the stuff with ... some of the stuff
with ... oh fuck. Oh yeah, the writing project. I want to get my obsidian set up and my kind
of ... that stuff set up. I want to get my ... I want to get my ... I want to get my ... fucking
hell. What am I talking about? I want to get my ... I want to get Whispers X set up on
my computer, on my laptop. And I want to get an ... try and get an automated system going
where I can turn these into transcripts automatically without me having to fuck around with it.
Yeah. So that's ... that's my goal. And I was thinking like how the fuck am I going
to get all of those things done before I leave while working. And the answer is I can't,
basically. The answer is I need to not be working for a bit. So I think what I'm going
to do is take a bit more time off than like at ... leave a bit earlier than I first thought.
Like ... you know, if John ... I need to decide this on my week off, that if it's coming up.
But basically I think I might actually go over ... I might aim to get over to the UK
after Jono and Emily have gotten back from their trip. So I might, yeah, do that. Because
they're not really going to be able to look for stuff while like ... yeah. They're not
going to be able to look for places, et cetera, et cetera. So I probably realistically won't
be going actually until the beginning of May. And ... which means if I take ... if I do
what I was planning on doing and take ... and like basically finish up in March and take
leave for ... you know, take all of my leave for March. And I'll probably have about a
month then so I can basically have March like I finished, but I will still be doing
stuff. Yeah. Yeah, so finish up in March and then take two months off. One month paid,
one month unpaid. So I spend that time doing stuff and I guess I'm just going to have to
do it. Like I don't really want to save a whole bunch of money and then like spend it all
again. I want to ... like I keep doing that. But I think I'm probably going to have to
cop it as the cost of being able ... having the time to actually get stuff done that I
need to get done. And before I ... like that I need and want to get done before I go. And
then ... which means I would need to ... I'll need to get the 3D printer completely set up
because I can't afford to buy more stuff for it once I'm like packed away or like finished
with work. So I need to get that all set up and ready to go. Yeah. I need my flights booked
and it's going to be a bit like nerve wracking because I'm going to be having no ... I'm
going to be spending money and having no money coming in. But it's really important to me
to get this project underway and it's also really important to me to get this 3D printing
done. Yeah, that's the primary two main ... there's probably a few other things but that's the
primary things that I want to get done in that time. And then yeah, go over to the UK,
get a place, find somewhere to live and then like take a bit of time, a couple of weeks
maybe to go travelling. Even just around the UK is fine to begin with. So I don't spend
a bazillion dollars but yeah, just some time travelling around the UK and getting to know
my new digs and then yeah, really knuckling down and looking for a job after a couple
weeks of being there. I think that might be the plan. I think that is going to be the
plan. I just need to talk to Jono about get the dates of when him and Emily will be back
and what their plans are about when they're going to start looking for a place. Like are
they going to look for a place for the week that they're not there? For the week that
they arrive before they go on their trip? Or are they going to wait until they get back
from their trip to start looking? Yeah, so I think that might be what I'll do. I'll
just have to like, I don't know, bring a whole bunch of shit with me and I don't know what
I'm going to do about it all. Maybe I can leave some of it at Jono's parents for a
little bit or something and then go stay somewhere. Yeah.
