Holly. We talked about her stuff, how she's been going with her trip, which is not great,
and we talked about my mental state and meds and stuff. I want to note two things that
I actually think I need to talk to my therapist about. I felt like Holly, she was in a bunch
of situations listening to me. I felt like she wasn't and I felt like she wasn't and
I have this really strong reaction. I don't know if it's specifically just Holly or if
it's whenever it happens with anybody. I had this really strong reaction of that stress
ball which I very rarely get these days. I have it in my chest where she was basically
trying to talk me out of coming off of the meds. I felt like she wasn't really listening
to me because I'd be like, "I hear you, but here's this other thing." She never really
acknowledged my points kind of thing. I didn't hear it feel very listened to, but at the
same time she kind of was as well. I also sort of do. Just noting that reaction, I think
it's something I need to talk to my therapist about. I react very strongly to that. I don't
know if it's just in general, it wouldn't happen to anybody. It definitely happens with
Holly, but I get a really quite strong emotional reaction. I feel like I've got indigestion
basically. I just want to fucking scream at her and say, "Just fucking listen to me for
fuck's sake." But at the same time also, so that's something I need to talk to my therapist
about, but at the same time also a lot of the things she was saying are right and make
sense. Basically I was going to come off the meds and go to see my therapist and be like,
"Right, I'm coming off my meds. Help." But now I'm kind of like, "Maybe I should actually
go up to two first before I ..." Then see how that goes and then maybe come off of them.
I want to be in a settled place. I either want to be ... If I'm on two, I want to be on two
and have settled in to be stable. I want to be in a stable position before I move. If
I'm going to be on two, I want to be on two and be settled into that before I go. Or if
I'm coming off of them, I want to be well and truly off them and being past the difficult
part, et cetera, et cetera. So I'm going to talk to my therapist about that, but the big
thing I need to talk to her about is what's driving me wanting to get off of them is the
fact that I feel like they haven't really helped with the depression and that they've
worsened the apathy and I am really, really struggling with the apathy. I'm really struggling
to connect with things and that's actually kind of in some ways making the depression
worse or it feels like that. I don't know if that's actually ... If that's getting worse
because the depression's getting worse or that's contributing to making the depression
worse, but I'm just ... I am feeling ... I feel like I'm getting more and more apathetic
and I'm ... I went to the Melbourne and barely cared about anything and I don't want to feel
like that in the UK. I don't really have that much control over it in some ways, but I really
... I'm terrified of feeling apathetic about the UK because I think I'm like ... Maybe
it's like that's the thing I'm hoping for will make me feel better and if it doesn't
then what the fuck do I do sort of thing. Yeah. I need to talk to my therapist about
that, about what's underlying my desire to come off the thing because I want to be able
to connect to things. I want to be able to care about things. I want to be able to be
excited about things. I want to be able to look at the world in the way that I used to.
Yeah. Don't know. So those are the things I need to talk to my therapist about.
