So, I've just been listening back to the voice recordings I was doing on my trip down to
Melbourne. And philosophy stuff aside, where I was listening to the Goethe books, there's
a lot of talking about how I wasn't enjoying myself and kind of didn't care about anything
I saw. And the one I was just listening to, I'm driving at the moment, so it would have
been probably on the... that one I think would have been on the 5th. It was the day after
leaving like after Canberra. So it was the drive down from Canberra to Melbourne, which
was like the last day. Which I'm pretty sure was the 5th. But I mentioned how I was like
really down on myself for not being able to enjoy things. I just remembered that's something
I felt a lot. I felt that in Europe when I was starting to get to feel bad. I was like,
"Why am I not enjoying this?" So that isn't not enjoying myself and not being excited.
It's not just to do with the... I think the meds are contributing, but it's not just to
do with the meds. That's something I felt multiple times in my life. I definitely felt
that by the end of my time in Europe, by the last couple of weeks, I was like really feeling
that and I was feeling really... I was beating myself up basically. I was like... I'm not
sure if I was quite beating myself up. Like, you know, what's wrong with it? Well, there's
a little bit of that. A little bit of like, "What's wrong with you? Why aren't you enjoying
this? This is the thing you've wanted to do your entire life." But it was like this is
bad. The fact that I'm not enjoying this is a bad thing. It means something bad. That's
something I've experienced many times. That's what I need to explore. That's what's driving
me to get off of the pills. But it clearly was happening well and truly before I got
on the pills too.
