So I'm listening to the latest episode of...
I've lost my place at the moment. I think it's episode 200 and something teen.
214? Yep. And it's an episode on Heidegger.
And it's a very good episode on Heidegger. He's doing a very, very...
He's doing a really good job. But as I was listening to it,
it just struck me that
I want to spend an extended amount of time
just focusing my life on not doing this, like...
This thing that I'm... The way I'm living my life at the moment where I'm working some job and then
spending my time when I'm not doing that, trying to balance different hobbies.
I don't want this to be a hobby. I want to spend a year, maybe,
an extended period of time dedicated to just studying
Heidegger and adjacent works.
And I'm just... I have this really, really deep desire to do that.
And...
I can't do it the way that I have been trying to.
Where I go to work, come home, and then on the weekend I maybe go read for a bit.
It's just... It's not going to happen. It's not enough time.
It's not enough time. It's...
I'm too easily distracted in my spare time by other things.
Et cetera, et cetera.
The only way I can think to make it happen...
Yeah, and the only way I can think to make it happen is to do a PhD.
To do a PhD in... that in some way includes philosophy.
I can't think of any other way to do it.
Yeah, thinking about this is actually really stressing me out.
It's something I desperately want to do so badly, but...
Yeah, how do I afford it? How do I afford it? And how do I deal with the life, with the costs that are going to be involved?
If I'm really serious about it, I basically wouldn't be able to work.
If I was doing a PhD, I'd barely be able to...
Either I'd be working and be fucking poor and be extremely stressed and not be able to focus on the thing, which is not what I want, or I'd be fucking poor.
And I can do that for a bit, but I've done that a lot throughout my life.
How do I...
How do I start making some financial gains where...
I'm 33 and I have $8,000 in super.
How do I do the things that matter to me and not be destitute?
And I don't know, basically. I don't know how the fuck I'm supposed to do it.
But I really want to do a PhD.
Even if this is the thing, even if I don't get a job out of it, I still want to do it for the opportunity to do focused, to be paid to have, because I would be on a scholarship, paid to do research.
And because I think it would be worth doing. It's like it is worth doing for itself, irrespective of any job opportunity.
If I can find... if I can do it the right way, if I can find the right one, find the right place, etc., etc.
But how? How do I make it happen?
Four years of making fucking... four years in probably my 30s of making a fucking pittance.
And I can't keep depending on my parents to pay for things.
I don't... I don't know, man. I don't know how to do it.
But it's what I want to do.
And then, you know, after finishing the PhD, keep doing the same thing. That's what I want for my life.
I just don't see a way to do it.
Anyway, related to this, I'm thinking about asking Zabi for a week off in November, so that I can start getting ready for the UK.
I can start actually... like three days on the weekend never feels like enough time to really get into stuff.
I want to like organize the 3D printer, get that going, sell, you know, start listing things for sale,
start making some choices and doing some like heavy research, etc., etc.
So I think what I might do is I might go see this doctor tomorrow about what I'm going to do about my meds.
Then on Thursday I will have a conversation with Zabi and say, "Hey..."
Earlier this... before then, sometime this week, I'll have a conversation with Jazz and say,
"Hey, do you think it's possible for me to take a week off in November, in the middle of November?"
And take a week off in the middle of November and...
God, I'm so... I've got this giant ball of fucking stress in my chest thinking about what I want to do
and the fact that it's like next to... it feels next to impossible, because of the costs involved.
That I'm going to fucking pull for myself basically doing it.
Talk to Jazz before Thursday, say, talk to her about the possibility of me taking a week off, get her okay.
Then talk to this doctor on Wednesday afternoon about my meds, decide what I'm doing about my meds.
Then on Thursday talk to Zabi and talk to her about that I'm going to be changing my meds
and things might be a little bit topsy-turvy for me for a bit.
And that I'd like to take a...
I'd like to take a...
I'd like to take a week off in November, in the middle two weeks of November.
There's no point me going down to four... to three days a week until the new year.
Because, like, I need to be doing four days during December and January.
It's only a month between... basically I'm not far off... we're not far off being only a month to December.
So it's like there's not much point... yeah.
So basically come January, end of January maybe I can go down to three days a week for the...
and then finish up in March or something like that.
But I want to take November, some time in November to really start thinking about, like, really start the preparation process.
Yeah.
Before then, I need to... at some point before then I really need to...
If I'm going to get it... I mean I maybe need to make the decision about the 3D printer then.
But I probably... like if I want to start focusing on doing some 3D printing I need to do it...
that's probably a good time to do it, which means I need to have bought the 3D printer before then.
Which means I need to have made a decision about whether I'm printing stuff and taking it over.
Which means I need to have probably made a decision about...
probably need to have made a decision about...
probably need to have made a decision about when I'm going.
And I also need to, before that week off, work out what I need to do, what I want to achieve and what I need to do in that week off.
So I'm not, like, spending time in that week off actually thinking about it. I'm actually just doing it.
So yeah, that's what I'm doing. That's what I'm going to try and do.
And maybe if I can I'll fit in there, I'll fit in some philosophy writing, some study, self-study.
