Awesome. Nice. Okay, so, listening to episode 20... hold up. 214 of Philosophize This, the
Heidegger episode, and at 34 minutes, about 34 minutes and 30 seconds in, he starts, or
kind of 34 minutes in really, he starts talking about, like a little bit talking about Heidegger's
idea of the technological framing of things, and technicity. He doesn't actually use the
word technicity, but that is Heidegger's word technicity. And he talks about how, you know,
previously on the show, recently, they have, he, Stephen West, has been talking about,
you know, different ways of, different forms of politics, you know, capitalism, socialism,
et cetera, et cetera, problems with capitalism, and you know, capitalist realism, and how
maybe, you know, we need to get rid of capitalism and try other things. And he says, and this
is the important bit, he says, "Heidegger, it's not that Heidegger wouldn't have thoughts
on this, but he would probably see capitalism as just a symptom of a larger sickness." Thus,
a larger sickness we have at the level of being, which I think is very accurate, and
I think is pointing towards something like John Viveki's, John Viveki's, what's his
face, "Tyranny of the Propositional," Ian McGill-Crest's left-brained takeover, David
Chapman's rationalism, et cetera, et cetera. He says, "Even if we got rid of capitalism
and tried to replace it with something better, that system would still be created by people
who are in, in, Stephen West's Westward overindexed on the subject-object distinction." And that's
exactly the fucking point that I, that I like, that's why capital, like, tearing, communism
and tearing, and the answer isn't at the level of politics. The answer is much deeper. You
know, this, this is, the subject-object distinction is integral to the meaning crisis, and the
meaning crisis is deeper than politics. Problems with politics are a, are a symptom of, let's
say, the meaning crisis. It might be more than that. It might be deeper than that. But
that's the point. The problem won't be solved at the level of politics. The problem won't
be solved at the level of ideology. That's why I don't care about those things, and that's
why I think, why I think the thing I care about is so much more important. So much more
difficult to solve, but so much more important. And that's why I want to devote my life to
working on it. I just don't know how to do that.
Whoops, forgot to turn it off. He says, "We won't be able to overcome the problem until
we can start to view the world as not a warehouse of stuff that we can manipulate." Which is
a, which is the left brain. He says being in time for Heidegger, especially by the point
of his later work, is basically like a starter. It's him starting. It's, it's basically like
a proof of concept. It's an exercise in getting people to loosen up their, loosen up their
view through the subject object distinction. Which I think is kind of an indicator that's,
that would be probably part of the experience of reading it, I think. I really, also, on
the note, I really want to, because he's talking about Heidegger, back when he was, I think,
I can't remember if it was Heidegger or his episodes on Heidegger or his episodes on Wittgenstein
or something, but earlier, around the same time he was talking about the existentialists,
he mentioned at the end of one of those episodes and then didn't do it and went off and did
other things, that he would like to talk about the relationship between Heidegger and Wittgenstein's
work and he was like, "Tell me if anybody's interested in that," and then obviously nobody
was because nobody, because he didn't continue with that. I really, really want to message
him and be like, "Hey, please, please, for the love of God, do that."
Next episode is going to be on Heidegger's later work, which is about, you know, later
work on how basically a lot of existence of being is actually completely mysterious and
can't be put into words and will always escape rational thought. And then he kind of does
the critique of, like, if that's the case, how the fuck am I ever supposed to know anything
you're—how can I ever differentiate between valid points you're making, Heidegger, and
just fucking bullshit? And that's what the next episode is going to be about. Apparently
trying to enter into that through the lens of mysticism. So, yeah, cool. Directly getting
into the stuff that I'm interested in.
I am feeling really—it's rare that I feel like this, that I feel these days that I feel
this—I'm feeling really hyped up and passionate. There's things I know I can do and that I
want to do, and I'm going to just go home and do them. I'm not going to play games.
I'm not going to—and more importantly, well, kind of more importantly, actually, more impactfully,
I am going to—I don't know—I am going to—I'm not going to go home and do my exercise.
I was going to do that tonight. I'm going to make a very conscious decision that normally
I—it's something I should be doing, but I am going to choose this today. I am choosing
consciously to get home, have a shower, and dive straight into this. And what this is,
I'm going to message—I'm going to send that episode to Jeremy and say, "Hey, I really
want to listen to this with you at some point." I'm going to look into how to—I'm going
to become a Patreon of Philosophize This. I'm going to look at all of Stephen West's profiles
and things and see how I can get in contact with him, and then I'm going to reach out
to him and lay it all out and be like, "Hey, I love your work. I've been watching and
listening to it for quite a while now." And with this Heidegger—recently you've been
talking about some stuff I'm really interested in, but with this Heidegger stuff, you're
getting into my core fascinations. I'm feeling really lost, but this is the direction I want
to go in. And please continue, but also, earlier on, quite a while ago, you mentioned at one
point about wanting to—talking about linking together Heidegger and Wittgenstein's work,
and you asked, "Hey, would anybody be interested in that?" And clearly nobody was because he
didn't continue down that path, but I would really, really, really desperately love to
hear about that. Please. And then after that, I'm going to install—try
and install WhisperX, and I'm going to start—I'm going to do the tasks I have around getting
all of my recordings off of here, organising them, installing WhisperX, and—what's it
called? What's this facing them all? Translating—like, transcending them all into transcripts, and
then feeding those into GPT. That's what I'm going to do tonight. I'm choosing to do that
over my exercises. Tomorrow, I'm going to have to really—I'm
going to have to do both. My mum and dad just got home. That didn't make any sense. I'm
going to have to do my exercises and do both parts of it, not just one. Rather than—because
tonight, I was going to do half of it and then do the other half tomorrow night, and
I'm going to have to just do all of it tomorrow.
