While I was doing my usual lazy-about-in-bed-for-fuck-sake-colon.
Goddamnit.
Fucking turned on.
I read the first article of a sub-stack called "Matriarchal Blessing" this morning.
And, um...
It made a point that I hadn't thought of before that I think is actually a really, really good point.
That...
Artificial lubricant, like lube, is kind, like, you know, it's important and it's...
Like we should be, you know, like...
I should be... I definitely need to use it, etc. etc.
But it is in some ways like a shortcut that lets...
Let's sex happen without women, a woman necessarily being as into it or as ready for it as she otherwise might be.
Because, you know, the fact that she's using lube means she's not as lubricated as she could be.
Um...
I think that's a really good point.
But there was a bunch of other connections here and I was like...
I was reading this article and I was like, I agree with a lot of this shit and...
I was talking about how a lot of women in marriages have sex with their husband.
Sex is for their partner, for their husband.
And I'm like, I don't... I never wanted sex like that.
I want sex where my partner wants to have sex.
Like, I want them to want it. I want them to be part of it. I want them to be in it. I don't want them to do it for me.
That's a problem I had with a lot of the sex... with Holly and I's sex life.
And I had a part to play in that.
Which is all the hangups I have around sex and...
It's like, I'm quite terrified of sex. I'm quite...
I'm not terrified. That's an overstatement. But I'm quite uncomfortable and like, oh, I don't know what I'm doing sort of thing.
So it's like hard to then be like, I also need to then know how to...
It's not just pleasure, my partner. It's like...
It should be, we are both in this together.
And that's what I... I don't want dominant... I don't want to be dominant. I don't want to be submissive.
I want... we are both in this together.
And... what is it?
A lot of it resonated with me and how I feel about sex.
But one of the big things was I was like, yeah, so this thing with lube, it's like...
I just kind of envisage something in my head, a situation in my head where we're like having sex with a woman.
And she's like, okay, let's use the lube. And then I'm like, hold up.
If we're using lube, doesn't that mean that you are not as lubricated as you like maybe should be?
And if that's the case, why is that? And that means why is that happening?
Which means maybe we should be taking a step back here and not focusing on getting you lubed up so that you can...
So I can fuck you. But like...
If we are using lube, it means you are not as...
You are not as...
I don't know how to say it without it. You are not as into this. You are not...
You are not as turned on as you otherwise might, as you could be.
And why is that happening?
Are you focusing on...
Are you like doing this for me?
And it's like, well, okay, maybe we need to slow down and take a step back and focus on you for a bit.
And your desire and what is going to get you turned on.
And not for the purpose of "so I can fuck you".
It's so that we're both in this together.
We're doing together that we both want.
That we're both getting something out of it, etc. etc. etc.
And then I was like, you know...
But that's... Then that brings up the frustrations around female sexuality that I sometimes have.
Where it's like, female sexuality is in some ways a lot of fucking work.
You know, the whole... You've got to have a fucking...
You know, the thing Holly said that time about needing a watch and timing things and all that sort of stuff.
And that is true in some ways. And that gets frustrating.
Like sometimes I don't have... But it's like, okay, well why is that frustrating?
It's frustrating because it takes time and it takes energy.
And I don't... I feel chronically short of both of those things.
So it's like I feel like I need to fit sex in around other things.
But that's always... Like sex like that is always going to be limited.
It's always going to be not what it could be.
And then I was like, well, you know, that's capitalism.
That's like, you know, having this hyper productivity super thing about...
Not just necessarily capitalism but the wider thing of like capitalism and the system and the kind of the worldview it grows out of.
Which is, you know, this kind of like focused on, you know, productivity, like measurement of time and all of that stuff.
And then I was like... And this brings me back to...
You know, and then a lot of people stop there. They're like, capitalism is the problem.
And my thing is, no it isn't. Capitalism isn't the problem.
Capitalism is a symptom of a deeper thing, which is...
It's not necessarily the meaning crisis, but capitalism is a symptom of what...
Of the worldview and cultural... The worldview and cultural factors and history...
Historical factors that have led to the meaning crisis.
It's the propositional tyranny. It's all of that stuff.
It's the underlying issue.
And, you know, like capitalism arises...
Capitalism doesn't just happen.
Capitalism arises out of a particular way of seeing the world.
And that way of seeing the world is the problem.
Capitalism is a symptom of that.
I mean, it's probably like a self-reinforcing cycle where once capitalism comes about it, it creates incentives where it keeps that.
It propagates it, keeps it going.
But capitalism is caused by the underlying deeper issue of this cluster of...
Or this numinous, fuzzy, ambiguous thing or set of things that either is or is related to the meaning... Or it causes the meaning crisis.
That set of worldviews and historical happenings and that trajectory, etc. etc.
That's the actual issue. That's what I actually care about working on.
That's what I want to focus my time on.
That's why I'm like, you know, I get really fucking annoyed with people who are like, "Fuck capitalism." etc. etc. etc.
So... And patriarchal systems are...
Well, I'm going to say patriarchal systems are part of the same thing, but like at the same time are they.
Because patriarchal systems have been around for the entire history of the West, basically.
And also many other places. It's not just a Western thing.
So patriarchal systems may be deeper than that.
Yes. Hmm.
