about how to rejig 40k, thinking about a alternating activation and order system like Epic Second
Edition has, and then you could have, like honestly you could basically just do the same
thing as like that in Legion's Imperialis and that kind of shit. Legion's Imperialis
would probably be the best way to do it. Like an advance fire, a, hold on, so yes, probably
like a similar sort of thing to Legion's Imperialis where you at the start of the turn, you secretly
put an order on each of your units and the order determines what it can do that turn.
Honestly, the ones from Legion's Imperialis are probably fine. Advance, march, first fire,
although I don't like the name, first fire, and charge or assault. And then there's a
fallback one if things fail, leadership checks, that kind of thing. I think that's a pretty
decent system. And then you could do stuff like, so to represent their flexibility, you
could do something like have, with Space Marines you could have different Space Marines, different
Space Marine units will have either tactical, will have like tactical doctrine, so you'll
have like tactical units will have tactical doctrine, devastated doctrine, or assault
doctrine. Obviously, tactical units will have tactical doctrine, devastated units will have
devastated doctrine, and assault units will have assault doctrine, but then a bunch of
other things should probably also have those. Maybe you can choose between, you pick maybe
at the start of the game, or maybe, so for example like a bunch of tanks, so a bunch of
tanks should probably have both either tactical or, either tactical or, either tactical or,
first fire, first sorry, tactical doctrine or devastated doctrine. An army-wide rule
called like doctrines of war, and then, so they're like at the start of the codex you'd
have like doctrines of war, something like doctrines of war, and then a chunk of text
explaining how the system works, and then the different doctrines, and then the units
will have doctrines of war, or like chapter doctrines, and then in brackets the particular
one they've got, so like doctrines, chapter doctrine or doctrine of war, tactical in brackets.
And what those mean is, what those mean is, the, when a unit has one of those doctrines
they can, after all the orders have been revealed, they can change one of their orders, change,
a unit that has that can change its order to something else, it depended on the doctrine.
So tactical doctrine can always change their order to advance, devastated doctrine can
always change their order to first fire, and assault doctrine can always change their order
to charge. And then you've maybe got, maybe some text saying if they've got multiple,
like chapter doctrine, chapter doctrines, then in brackets assault, comma, devastator,
or sorry, tactical, comma, devastator, then that means at the start of the game they pick
which one they're going to have, basically. Or maybe at the end of the start of the turn
they pick which one they're going to have. Before anyone puts down orders they pick which
one they're going to have. So the enemy still kind of knows, oh yeah, so he can, around
their planning he can switch to, what's his face, and then a fourth one which is chapter
doctrines veteran, which is, you can be any three of them. You're basically all three
of them at the same time, you don't have to pick. You can just always change any of your
orders to, no matter what you pick, you can change your order to advance, charge, or first
fire basically. Which the various Vanguard units would have, and also the, so sorry,
not Vanguard, various veteran units, so Vanguard veterans, turn guard veterans, honestly probably
characters, or possibly they just have the one of the unit they join, and terminators
have veteran as well. And then like a bunch of the vehicles would probably have, like,
most of the vehicles would probably have tactical and devastating. Dreadnaughts would have veteran,
etc. etc. Yeah, so that just gives them a huge amount of tactical flexibility, which
I think like really captures who they're supposed to be, like how they are. They're an extremely
adaptable, flexible force. And it also means they don't depend on their characters. That's
the one thing where I'm like, I don't know if I like the thing of characters having veteran,
because it kind of means that you're really incentivised to attach characters to your
units. So I think it's probably characters have their own, but when they're attached
to a unit, they use the units, essentially. And then commanders maybe let a unit within
X amount of distance of them, or perhaps the unit they're attached to, not sure. Maybe
both change their order to anything when they activate, rather than at the start. So the
doctrines let you change your order in the command phase once everybody has done all
of their... Oh wait, they don't get revealed. Yeah, I was going to say once everybody reveals
all their orders, you can change one of them, but... I was actually originally thinking
you don't reveal your orders. That you're revealing the orders. The order is revealed
when the unit activates. Yeah, I was going to say, assuming it is, you reveal the orders
when the unit at the end of the order phase, then characters let a unit either that they're
attached to, or within X distance of them, maybe only one per turn, or maybe any unit
within that distance lets them, when they activate, change their order to anything.
And that's after the command phase. So they're even more flexible. Then Imperial Guard maybe
have like... after their command squads have something like, after your units have... Ah
fuck, I'm in the wrong spot. After your... Maybe I'll just go this way actually. After
your units have... After you've revealed all of your orders... Not quite sure about the
Imperial Guard command stuff. It should be to do with like, you know, platoon command
squads can order their platoon, can do something with their platoon, but I don't think it should
be to do with those same kind of orders. Maybe they get different kinds of orders, which
are like... You know, like, this is an advance order, but when you shoot you get extra shots,
or something, when you roll to one, etc. etc. Maybe it should be like that. Or it could
be... Yeah, maybe they get access to a bunch of different orders, or... Yeah, something
like that. They get access to a bunch of different orders perhaps, which are the same orders
as everybody else gets, but... Come on dude. Same orders as everybody else gets, but when
you are on them you also get some buff. Like, this is an advance order, and also this unit
gets some bonus. Yeah. Maybe you do it at the end of the... You do it... Once you've placed
all of your order tokens... Once both of you have placed all of your order tokens, but
before either of you reveal any of them, you can have your command units issue orders,
and basically it can be like... You know, maybe for platoon command squads it's like
every... Platoon command squads maybe have access to... Let's say they have three, and
it's like move, move, move, shoot, shoot, shoot, take cover. And they are basically any of
your... Any of your platoon units... Any units that are from that guy's platoon, from that
command squad's platoon, that are within six inches of the platoon squad, when they...
So you declare which order they're doing, which Guardsman order they're doing. Once you've
done all of yours, you declare which Guardsman order you're doing. It shouldn't be super
flexible like the Space Prince, alright, it shouldn't let you like change your order mid-game,
it should have to happen before activation start, but... Should be, yeah, like before
they... Before you both declare... Before you reveal all your orders basically, so you won't
get to see what the enemy is doing when you do your orders. But they won't... But you
do it before revealing the rest of your orders so the enemy doesn't know what you had and
they can't react quite as much. But it's like, you know, this guy's gonna have... This guy...
This... After you've placed all your orders, you're like... This guy is gonna do this Guardsman
order, which does like all of the platoon... All of the... From platoon command squad,
all of the units within his... In that command unit's platoon that are within six inches
of him can be affected by that order. And that order is... Will be something like maybe
"move, move, move", which is "This is a march order, but your units can shoot a... Can move
triple their distance", that kind of thing. Or "Take cover, this is a first fire order
and while affected by this first fire order, that unit also gains a cover save. If they
are not in cover and if they are in cover, they increase their cover save", something
like that. And then you can basically pick which of your units are going to be affected
by it. So your units that were within range of that unit can either keep their order or
they can switch to this other order. So, you know, maybe some of your units are in advance
and your guy does... Yeah, something like that. And your guy does take cover and all of the
units are... They can then... All of your units that were on advance can then change to...
What's the face if they want. They can change to the first fire order if they want. But
maybe it's like you have to pass a command check or something like that for it to happen.
Maybe. Something like that. Yeah, or like it's the same thing as it is currently. You
can't be... You put out the orders, but they have no effect on units that are battle shocked
and then you maybe do your morale after that kind of thing. It could definitely be slower
and clunkier and the opponent can react to them more kind of thing. Yeah. And then you
could have things like Vox Thieves, like this isn't for Imperial Guard, but this is just
that system in general. You could have things like Vox Thieves where you can... If a unit
is within X... So for example in Cursors, whatever they are, they probably have Vox Thieves which
means if this unit is within 12 inches of... If this unit is within 12 inches of... This
unit is within 12 inches of an enemy unit. Or you pick a unit within 12 inches of them,
something like that. You can see their order. Or you can pick a unit and reveal their order
before placing your own kind of thing. Still be stratagems, but they should be more like
command and control things. They shouldn't be like take cover, go to ground, shit like
that. They should be like change your order when you activate. And Imperial Guard command
squads should have lookouts. So the whole squad, if the whole command squad, like the commands
the whole squad, not just the leader, but the command squad is within three inches,
maybe six inches but probably three inches of a unit of the same type, then you can't...
They're not an eligible target to be shot at unless they are the closest unit. And then
the instinctive behaviour for NIDS should be if you're not within... If a unit that has
instinctive behaviour rule isn't within synapse, range of your army, then they must... Then
they have to do a particular order, depending on what their instinctive behaviour type,
which would be lurk, whatever it was. The three ones it used to be. Lurk, feed and hunt
or something like that. Lurk, feed is if the unit is within 12 inches of an enemy unit.
They must do the charge order. Must do the charge. If they are... If they're not within
12 inches they must do march, basically. And then lurk is if they're in cover or in terrain,
in a piece of terrain, they must do first fire and then fire at the... Maybe fire at
the closest unit. And instinctive behaviour is move towards the closest enemy unit and
charge the closest enemy unit. Lurk is if in a piece of terrain do first fire and must
shoot at the closest unit, otherwise they must do advance and move towards cover and then
shoot at the closest unit. Something like that. And it should bring back a lot of the
customisability that earlier editions, particularly 3.5 had. You should be able to... And in some
ways what 9th had, you'd be able to create your own chapter tactics. Every army should
have that chapter to create your own chapter tactics thing. Although I do like the detachment
thing. Yeah, and like, you know, maybe Guardsman platoons can have like... Nah, probably should
do it on a platoon level.
