I was thinking about the nature of philosophy this morning. I'm on my way to work at the
moment, so it's still this morning. But, so, as I was getting ready for work, I was reading
a sub-stack article called "Call Me Token Woman". I'm not quite sure who the author
is. I didn't really look, so I don't have it on hand. But there was some female author,
and she was writing about how she's often the only... she gets invited to speak at events
and panels and stuff like that, and she's often the only woman there. And she was writing
it in response to, or in tandem, or related to something a friend of hers, Jonathan Rosen,
who I have heard of. I think I maybe have heard of him in the context of a similar sort
of area as John Vivecki kind of thing. Yeah, so I... she was writing... yeah, so he was
basically writing about similar sort of thing, women in these kinds of spaces, where he's
like... and he was saying something like, "Why don't you speak up more?" And women's response
was like, "Your entire... your assumptions are like... your entire environment in these
places is kind of built against it, where it's like all these environments are male-coded,
quote unquote." And she's kind of building on that and talking about her experience.
And she's obviously quite an informed... she's quite a knowledgeable lady. She talks about...
she mentions some philosophical figures, and she talks about how... and she uses the word
"knowing" and then in brackets it's like I almost used the word "depistemology" there.
She talks about kind of like the male-coding of these things and kind of the argumentative...
and philosophy and science, and talks about the argumentative nature of... the male-coded
nature of these fields and how they're... and she kind of talks about... she explicitly
mentions Iain McGillchrist's left and right hemispheres, work on the left and right hemisphere,
and she talks about how these are very left hemispheric ways of dealing with things. These
are very left hemispheric ways of dealing with things. But, you know, she says, you know,
science and philosophy are not the right tools for certain jobs. I agree with that to some
extent, but basically the underlying point I was trying to get to, that this was the
sparking, this was the thing that got me thinking. And I'd like to go back and finish reading
that article and maybe, based on what I'm talking about here, comment on that article
in response to her. But it got me thinking that that article, and also in relation to
David Chapman's article about philosophy and how it's bad, I think those are very impoverished...
I don't want to say, like, narrow ideas of philosophy and what philosophy is. And that's
what I mean when I say I was thinking about the nature of philosophy this morning and
like kind of what it is and what it's about. And to classify it as, like, it can be done
in that way, in that very systematic, analytic, rigid definition, like hard definitions, argumentative,
all of that sort of stuff. It can be done in that way. That is a way that philosophy
can be done. That is an approach to philosophy. But that's not all philosophy is. And this
lady is treating philosophy as that. And she's also, I think, David Chapman is as well hyper-rationalist.
As much as, if this entire idea exists, that idea, like, despite the fact that I've been
really hardcore into this idea of the left hemisphere and the right hemisphere and the
relationship between that and the having mode and the being mode, after reading this article,
I'm now, like, it's kind of set off a bit of a scepticism about that, which is healthy,
but it also made me realise that I wasn't necessarily, like, I'm deeply interested
in that idea, but that doesn't necessarily mean that I have to have been like, but that's
the way things are, left hemisphere, right hemisphere. I'm just, I'm not necessarily
saying that that's the case, you know. There seems to be good evidence for that split,
Imigil Christ's split. And the way he talks about things does seem to me to line up with
the having mode and the being mode and all of that sort of stuff. Propositional tyranny,
that whole cluster of things. But that doesn't mean I have just outright accepted that. You
know, like, I am exploring, I'm not prescribing at all. And that's the underlying point I
think I'm getting to with philosophy, is like, philosophy can be done that way, but it is
much broader than that. And ultimately, I think, philosophy is the broadest and deepest field
of enquiry, and field of enquiry is the important part. Philosophy is about asking questions.
Philosophy can be used in a way where it tries to give answers, but that's, it never, I think,
actually succeeds in doing that. Philosophy ultimately is questioning. Questioning everything.
You know, and it, it, it, it, and like, you can have, you can have philosophical, like,
it's, it's, like, that is the root of philosophy, it is questioning things. And from that you
can arrive at philosophical positions like eliminatism or materialism, and those are
philosophical positions. But they are never, but they are not final. And that's almost
the point. Like, you should always, like, yeah, you can maybe take them provisionally
as a position in which you stand, but philosophy ultimately, I think, should be, is, or like,
should be, and kind of at root is about questioning. And to suggest, and to say that, you know,
philosophy is this very rationalist, that I think is the, like, David Chapman is talking
about philosophy as this rationalist, rationalism approach. And that's, that's, like, that is
how a lot of philosophy has been done. But that, I think, is not all philosophy is. You
know, like, you know, like, I wouldn't call the novels of Sartre and Camus rationalist.
They're not, they have some philosophical theme they are trying to explore, and they
maybe have, like, they maybe have, like, some position they're trying to potentially argue
for, but that, I don't think it's necessarily, like, a rationalist position. It's a work
of literature. You know, and it's not really using rationale, I don't know, it's using,
maybe that's part of it, but, just, I don't think that's quite the same thing. But that's
still philosophy. You know, like, you're going to go exploring philosophical themes in things
like 1984, so, you know, literature can be borderline philosophy, can be borderline philosophy.
Themes can be borderline philosophy, they explore philosophical themes. So, then it kind of,
like, starts to break down a bit. It's like, you know, what's the difference between philosophy
and literature or philosophy and religion, but then it's the same problem as everything.
What's the difference between this and that? And things break down at the borderlines.
This whole problem of categories, which is a philosophical question. That's what philosophy
is. And people keep treating, I keep seeing people treat it as this very impoverished
view of what it is. And I think what John Vivecki talks about, about trying to get back
to Phileas Sophia, the love of wisdom. And in, you know, after Socrates, he talks about,
you know, the, like, he talks about the Socratic way of trying to get back to that and how
it, like, a very deeply important part of it is aporia. Like, the unknowing, the, like,
the deep questioning of everything, of like, what does any of this, what does any of this
mean? And yes, philosophy is used to try and give answers. And that's legitimate. But I
think at root, philosophy is, there's always a question. At root, philosophy is a question.
I actually consider that Socratic aporia to be the root of philosophy. And that goes beyond
rationality. That, you know, like, it's like, well, what even is rationality? That's a philosophical
question. Yeah. David Chapman's claim about, like, metaphysics, I actually can't entirely
remember what he said, but, you know, he talks about how these philosophers are making metaphysical,
like, you can't get away from philosophy. You can't. Maybe there are fields of life
where you can, but I'm kind of sceptical. I kind of don't think you can. And, like,
you know, most things you do, most things you do, you can't escape philosophy. Like,
you cannot do science without having some philosophical position. You might not be aware
of it. You might not even be thinking about it. But all of your scientific work is based
on some philosophical, some scientific paradigm, which is based on some philosophical assumption.
There is some philosophical metaphysical assumption underlying your work all the time. Like, always.
You can't, like, in doing science, you are making the philosophical assumption that,
you know, you can predict prediction as possible. That's a philosophical question. That, like,
all of that stuff, that's all, you cannot do any of that without having some underlying
philosophical, like, regardless of, if you, if you don't, if you aren't questioning it,
if you aren't doing philosophy, you just have somebody else's philosophical position. And
that's fine. Like, you can't, you can't be questioning everything all the time. You have
to have some basis on which to do things. But that basis is always some philosophical
assumption.
